The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Seventh, Two Thousand and Four

Jane L. Campbell
Mayor

Frank G. Jackson
President of Council

Valarie J. McCall
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
20
20
23
24
24
25
25
25
26
41
42

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Frank G. Jackson
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ...................................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White ..................................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson..................................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott ..............................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell ......................................................774 East 131st Street
Roosevelt Coats.....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka .................................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr. ....................................................3004 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon .................................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley ..........................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone......................................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Debra M. Janik, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Craig Tame, Executive Assistant
Galen L. Schuerlein, Executive Assistant
––––––––––––, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
Lorna Wisham, Chief Public Affairs Officer

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44108
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44144
44102
44102
44102
44111
44111

DEPT. OF LAW – Subodh Chandra, Director, Teresa Beasley, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – James S. Higgins, Commissioner, 1404 East 9th Street
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael G. Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Dr. Wendy Johnson, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Sanford E. Watson, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Natalie A. Ronayne, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – James G. Williams, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Gina Routen, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Steven Sims, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Director; Mayor Jane
L. Campbell, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L.
Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry, Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline
Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J.
Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
William Morrison.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Council President Frank
G. Jackson; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Christopher Carmody,
______________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F. Denk,
Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E.
P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Subodh Chandra, President;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker, Secretary; Council President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law Director
Subodh Chandra; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Utilities
Director Michael G. Konicek; Council President Frank G. Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke, Lawrence A. Lumpkin,
Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small, Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela Caldwell,
Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb,Council Member
Nelson Cintron, Ed Romero.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia
Nolan, David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton, Council Member Merle
Gordon.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Cindy Barber, Vice Chair; Michael Doud,
Doris Honsa, Richard Lenard.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Chairman; Finance
Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson; Councilman Dona Brady;
Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman; Donald
Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond Ossovicki, Chief Electrical
Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl S. Bumgarner,
Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V.
Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Paul Volpe, Chair; Ted Sande,
Vice Chair; James Gibans, India Pierce Lee, Robert Madison, Randall B. Shorr, Chris
Ronayne, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Dwayne J. Simpson; Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
Judge Emanuella Groves
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
Judge Mary Eileen Kilbane
Judge Anita Laster Mays
Judge Lauren C. Moore
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
Judge Joseph J. Zone

Courtroom
14B
15A
13A
14D
13D
14C
12C
12B
13B
15C
12A
14A
13C

Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Regina Daniel – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004

Vol. 91

No. 4713

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2004
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

MOTION

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt,
Dolan, Gordon, Reed, Rybka.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

On the motion of Council Member
Britt, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member White.

VALARIE J. McCALL

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley,
Vice
Chairman;
Brady,
Cintron,
Jones, Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka,
Vice
Chairman,
Conwell,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Scott, Westbrook.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Scott, Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00
vices
Zone,
well,

P.M. — Health & Human SerCommittee: Britt, Chairman;
Vice Chairman; Cintron, ConGordon, Scott, Polensek.

1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Scott, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman;
O’Malley,
Reed,
Sweeney,
Westbrook.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 5, 2004
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats,
Conwell,
Dolan,
Johnson,
Jones,
Lewis,
O’Malley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek,
Reed,
Sweeney,
Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present were Chief of Staff
Debra Janik and Director Chandra,
Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Assistant Director of Law; Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Watson, N. Ronayne, Routen, Fumich, Taylor, Johnson and C. Ronayne and Margreat
Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Rev. Jesse
Harris of Tabernacle Baptist Church,
located at 2042 West 26th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio, located in Ward 14.
Pledge of Allegiance.

589

RECORDING OF VOTE
OF ABSENT MEMBER
File No. 600-04.
MEMO
To: Valerie McCall,
Clerk of Council
From: Councilman Joe Jones,
Ward 1
Re: City Council Meeting
In accordance with Rule 22 of the
Rules of Council, I hereby request
that my vote be recorded as a yea
on the legislation passed and adopted by Cleveland City Council on
March 29, 2004.
Thank you
Received.
RECORD OF VOTE
In accordance with the request of
Council Member Jones and Rule 22
of the Rules of Council, the vote on
the following ordinances and resolutions passed and adopted by Cleveland City Council on March 29, 2004
is changed as follows:
Ord. No. 545-04.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 546-04.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 547-04.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 548-04.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 549-04.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 550-04.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 551-04.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 552-04.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 553-04.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1062-2000.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 775-03.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.

The City Record

4
Ord. No. 778-03.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2156-03.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2246-03.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 164-04.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 611-04—Bob Cerminara.
Res. No. 612-04—Garden of Prayer
Church of God in Christ Women’s
Restoration Retreat.
Res. No. 613-04—Nellie Ruby Taylor.

Ord. No. 168-04.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.

RECOGNITION RESOLUTION

Ord. No. 251-04.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:

Ord. No. 253-04.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.

Res. No. 614-04 — Tartan Day —
April 6th.

Ord. No. 334-04.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.

APPRECIATION RESOLUTION

Ord. No. 335-04.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:

Ord. No. 467-04.
Yeas 19. Nays 1.
Ord. No. 115-04.
Yeas 20. Nays 0.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 601-04.
From the Department of Finance
— copy of the City’s Revised Cash
Management and Investment Policy.
Received.
File No. 602-04.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — amendment to the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties’ Rules
and Regulations. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 603-04.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — Tesharra Taylor, Inc.,
d.b.a. Triple T, 3277 East 25th Street.
(Ward 12). Received.
File No. 604-04.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
Sokolowskis University Inn, Inc.,
1201 University Road, first floor and
basement. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 605-04.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
LPH Investment Corp., d.b.a. Major
Hooples Riverbed Cafe, 1930 Columbus
Road, first floor and patio. (Ward 14).
Received.
File No. 606-04.
Re: Liquor Agency Contract —
8007363 — Seyyara, Inc., d.b.a. Collinwood Village Food Mar, 16208 St.
Clair Avenue. (Ward 11). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 607-04—Edward Fowler.
Res. No. 608-04 — Jerko Gerald
“Jerry” Zovko.
Res. No. 609-04 — Elizabeth T.
Downs.
Res.
No.
610-04
—
Josephine
Thomas.

Res. No. 615-04—John B. Wilbur.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 573-04.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an agreement with Holland &
Knight LLP for Washington lobbying services for the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
an
agreement
with
Holland
&
Knight LLP for Washington lobbying services for the City of Cleveland, for the approximate sum of
$120,000, and a period not to exceed
one year, payable from Fund No. 01999800-632000, Request No. 146206.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 574-04.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Water
Revenue Bonds of the City in a
principal amount not to exceed
$175,000,000
for
the
purpose
of
refunding outstanding Water Revenue Bonds, authorizing a Supplemental Indenture to supplement the
amended and restated trust indenture securing outstanding Water
Revenue Bonds of the City, authorizing related matters, and declaring an emergency.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, a municipal corporation and

590

April 7, 2004
political subdivision in and of the
State of Ohio, is authorized under
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
the State and the Charter of the
City, among other things: (a) to own
and operate the public utility referred to as the Waterworks System;
(b) to make, from time to time,
improvements to the Waterworks
System; (c) to borrow money for the
purpose of paying costs of those
improvements and refunding outstanding bonds issued for that purpose; and (d) to issue additional
bonds secured by a pledge of and
lien on the Net Revenues of the
Waterworks System on a parity
with Bonds outstanding under the
Indenture, as defined and described
below; and
Whereas, this Council has determined that it is necessary to issue,
sell and deliver additional Bonds
under the Indenture in order to
refund certain Outstanding Bonds to
reduce
the
total
debt
service
payable on the Outstanding Bonds;
and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of public property, health and
safety, and for the further reason
that this Ordinance is required to
be immediately effective to permit
the issuance and sale of the 2004
Bonds to obtain debt service savings for the benefit of the Waterworks System and thereby provide
for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Indenture, a copy of which is on
file in with the Clerk of Council in
File No. 574-04-A, the following
words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context
or use otherwise indicates:
“2004 Bonds” means the Bonds
authorized to be issued under this
Ordinance and the Indenture in one
or more Series, sold under one or
more Bond Purchase Agreements
and secured under one or more Supplemental Indentures supplementing
the Indenture to provide the terms
of each Series.
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”
means one or more purchase agreements between the City and the
Original Purchasers with respect to
the 2004 Bonds authorized by Section 2 of this Ordinance.
“Certificate of Award” means one
or more certificates providing for
the determination of the final terms
of the 2004 Bonds of each Series,
consistent with the requirements of
this Ordinance including, without
limitation, Section 2 of this Ordinance.
“Continuing
Disclosure
Agreement” means one or more agreements authorized by Section 13 of
this Ordinance and to be in accordance with Rule 15c2-12 of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance or provide for the security
or liquidity of 2004 Bonds of any
Series.

April 7, 2004
“Escrow Agreement” means one or
more agreements between the City
and the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow Agent, authorized by Section
6 of this Ordinance.
“Escrow Fund” means the fund,
including the account or accounts
therein, required to be maintained
with the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow
Agent
pursuant
to
the
Escrow Agreement.
“Financial Advisor” means, with
respect to the 2004 Bonds, Government Capital Management, L.L.C. or
Columbia Equity Financial Corp.,
acting jointly or singly.
“Indenture” means the Amended
and Restated Indenture, effective
October 5, 2001, between the City
and National City Bank, as Trustee,
delivered under authority of Ordinance No. 2011-95 passed by the
Council of the City on April 1, 1996
and the consent of the owners of 662/3% of the applicable Bonds under
the Indenture of Mortgage dated as
of November 1, 1977.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to the 2004 Bonds, Bear,
Stearns & Co. Inc., Morgan Stanley
&
Co.
Incorporated,
SBK-Brooks
Investment Corp., and M. R. Beal &
Company.
“Outstanding Bonds” means water
revenue bonds of the City issued
and outstanding under the Indenture, consisting of the following
series of bonds, with the indicated
principal
amount
currently
outstanding:
Series
G,
1993
($163,055,000),
Series
H,
1996
($61,460,000),
Series
I,
1998
($297,430,000),
Series
J,
2001
($76,550,000),
Series
K,
2002
($138,050,000), and Series L, 2002
($90,000,000).
“Refunded Bonds” means those
Outstanding Bonds designated in
the Certificate of Award as the
Bonds to be refunded with proceeds
of the 2004 Bonds.
“Supplemental Indenture” means
one or more Supplemental Indentures between the City and the
Trustee securing the 2004 Bonds and
authorized under Section 6 of this
Ordinance. In the event that the 2004
Bonds are issued in more than one
Series under more than one Supplemental Indenture, references in this
Ordinance
to
the
Supplemental
Indenture mean the Supplemental
Indenture applicable to that Series.
Section 2. Authorization of the
2004 Bonds. This Council finds and
determines it is necessary and proper and in the best interest of the
City to issue the 2004 Bonds for the
purpose of refunding the Refunded
Bonds. The 2004 Bonds may be
issued in one or more Series. The
principal amount of each Series of
2004 Bonds is to be the amount set
forth in the Certificate of Award
authorized in Section 2. The aggregate principal amount of 2004 Bonds
of all Series issued for the purpose
of refunding the Refunded Bonds
shall not exceed $175,000,000 and
shall be the amount determined by
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be necessary to refund
the Refunded Bonds and to obtain
aggregate net present value debt
service savings with respect to the
Refunded Bonds of not less than
three percent (3%). The proceeds
from the sale of each Series of 2004

The City Record
Bonds shall be allocated, deposited
and applied as provided in Section 4
of this Ordinance.
The 2004 Bonds may be issued in
one or more separate Series, each
bearing a distinctive designation,
provided that the 2004 Bonds of each
Series satisfy the requirements of
this Ordinance. Separate Series of
2004 Bonds may be issued at the
same or different times. The 2004
Bonds of each Series shall be designated as provided in the applicable Certificate of Award. A separate
Certificate of Award and a separate
Supplemental
Indenture
may
be
delivered for each Series.
In the event that the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, determines that the City’s best interests
will be served by causing a Series
of 2004 Bonds to be obligations bearing interest at variable interest
rates, then the Director of Finance
is authorized to so specify in the
Certificate of Award for that Series.
If the Director of Finance so determines, then the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the 2004
Bonds of that Series shall be determined as provided in the applicable
Supplemental Indenture, whether by
auction, by reference to a market
index, by a remarketing agent or
otherwise; provided that no Series of
2004 Bonds shall bear interest at a
rate in excess of sixteen percent
(16%) per year. Notwithstanding
that limitation, a Series of 2004
Bonds held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument may bear
interest at a rate not in excess of
twenty-five percent (25%) per year
as provided in the agreement with
the provider of the Credit Support
Instrument. The Director of Finance
may determine that the terms of a
variable rate Series of 2004 Bonds
may or may not permit the Holders
to tender their variable rate 2004
Bonds for purchase by the City. If
the Director of Finance designates
any Series of 2004 Bonds as variable
rate 2004 Bonds, and if the Holders
of that Series of 2004 Bonds are to
be entitled to tender those 2004
Bonds for purchase, then the Director of Finance shall also designate
in the Certificate of Award for those
variable rate 2004 Bonds, the tender
agent or agents and the remarketing agent or agents, which designations shall be based on the determination of the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the 2004 Bonds, and from
time to time thereafter so long as
the 2004 Bonds are outstanding,
with providers of Credit Support
Instruments, tender agents (which
may be the Trustee), remarketing
agents (which may be any of the
Original Purchasers) and others as
may be determined by the Director
of Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, permitting holders the right

591

5
of tender and providing for payment
of the purchase price of, or debt service on, the variable rate 2004
Bonds. In the event the variable rate
2004 Bonds are issued as auction
rate obligations, the Director of
Finance is authorized, to enter into
agreements from time to time, so
long as the 2004 Bonds are outstanding, with auction agents and
others, or to cause the Trustee to
enter into those agreements, based
on the written advice of a Financial
Advisor that the parties so designated
possess
the
requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable.
Regardless of whether a Series of
2004 Bonds bears interest at variable or fixed rates, the Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
Credit Support Instruments, and to
pay the costs of them from proceeds
of the 2004 Bonds, if he determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the Credit
Support Instrument or Instruments
will result in a savings in the cost
of the financing to the City.
The Refunded Bonds shall be designated by the Director of Finance
in the Certificate of Award and
shall consist of those Outstanding
Bonds the refunding of which will
enable the City, in the judgment of
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to obtain aggregate net
present value debt service savings
of not less than three percent (3%).
The Refunded Bonds shall be called
for redemption or retired on the date
or dates specified in the Certificate
of Award. The redemption dates so
specified shall be the dates required
under the Code for compliance with
Section 149(d) of the Code and other
applicable federal tax laws.
Section 3. Sale of 2004 Bonds. The
2004 Bonds shall be sold to the Original Purchasers pursuant to one or
more Bond Purchase Agreements
substantially in the form of the
Bond Purchase Agreement now on
file with the Clerk in the File referenced in Section 1 with such
changes not inconsistent with the
Indenture or this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City as
may be approved by the officer signing the Bond Purchase Agreement
on behalf of the City. The approval
of any changes by that officer and
the determination by that officer
that the change is not substantially
adverse to the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and
delivery
of
the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement by that officer. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver the Certificate of Award and
Bond Purchase Agreement for the
2004 Bonds of each Series, one or
more of which shall specify and set
forth the following details with
respect to the 2004 Bonds:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount; provided that amount shall
not exceed $175,000,000 assuming
that the 2004 Bonds are to be initially offered to the public at a price
at least equal to their aggregate
principal amount; however, if any of
the 2004 Bonds are to be initially
offered to the public at an original

6
issue discount, the maximum aggregate principal amount of 2004 Bonds
shall be increased over that amount
by an amount equal to the aggregate original issue discount net of
the aggregate original issue premium;
(b) the date or dates of the 2004
Bonds;
(c) the purchase price to be paid
to the City by the Original Purchasers, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount
determined by subtracting from the
aggregate principal amount of the
2004 Bonds any aggregate original
issue discount net of any aggregate
original issue premium with respect
to the 2004 Bonds, plus (ii) any
accrued interest on the 2004 Bonds
from their date to the date of their
delivery to the Original Purchasers;
(d) whether any 2004 Bonds are
subject to optional redemption prior
to maturity and, if so, the earliest
optional redemption date for those
2004 Bonds subject to prior redemption, which shall be not later than
ten years from the first interest payment date of the applicable Series,
and the applicable redemption price,
which shall be not greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed;
(e) the dates on which principal
of the 2004 Bonds is to be paid,
which shall be not later than 30
years from the date of delivery, with
an identification of whether the payment is due by stated maturity or
by mandatory sinking fund redemption of 2004 Bonds of a particular
maturity;
(f) the interest rates to be borne
by 2004 Bonds bearing interest at a
fixed rate, which shall not exceed
amounts that result in an average
yield in excess of six percent (6%),
and the method by which the interest rate is to be determined for 2004
Bonds bearing interest at variable
rates, consistent with Section 2. The
2004 Bonds of the same Series and
same maturity may bear interest at
different interest rates;
(g) the particular Outstanding
Bonds or portions thereof to be
Refunded Bonds;
(h) any deposit required to be
made to the Debt Service Reserve
Fund; and
(i) the title and Series designation
for the Bonds.
It is determined that the terms of
the 2004 Bonds as so determined
within the limitations set forth in
this Ordinance and as so specified
and set forth in the Certificate of
Award will be in the best interest
of the City and consistent with all
legal requirements.
Section 4. Application of Proceeds
of 2004 Bonds. The proceeds of the
sale of the 2004 Bonds shall be
deposited as follows:
(a) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of the Interest Account in
the Debt Service Fund, the amount,
if any, received by the City upon
delivery of the 2004 Bonds as
accrued interest on any 2004 Bonds
from their dated date to the date of
the delivery of and payment for
those 2004 Bonds;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of the Debt Service
Reserve Fund, any amount identified in the Certificate of Award as
required to be deposited in the Debt
Service Reserve Fund;

The City Record
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of any Escrow Fund
established pursuant to any Escrow
Agreement, any proceeds to be
applied in accordance with the
Escrow Agreement to refund the
Refunded Bonds; and
(d) to the Trustee for deposit in
the Costs of Issuance Fund for the
2004 Bonds (to be established under
the applicable Supplemental Indenture) the balance of the proceeds to
be applied to pay costs of issuing
the 2004 Bonds.
Provision shall be made in the
Supplemental
Indenture
for
the
application of any amounts held in
the funds and accounts established
under the Indenture and no longer
required for the security of the
Bonds as a result of the Refunded
Bonds no longer being Outstanding,
or any amounts that otherwise are
in excess of the required balances.
Provision may be made in the Supplemental Indenture for the creation
of separate accounts within the
funds established under the Indenture or Supplemental Indenture.
Section 5. Terms and Provisions
Applicable to the 2004 Bonds.
(a) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All 2004 Bonds shall be issued in
fully registered form. The 2004
Bonds initially shall be delivered
only in book-entry form, shall be
registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered
owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository, and shall not
be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another
Depository or its nominee) without
further action by the City pursuant
to the provisions of the Supplemental Indenture.
(b) Dates; Denominations. The
2004 Bonds shall be dated as of the
date or dates provided in the Certificate of Award. The 2004 Bonds of
each Series shall be issued in the
denominations permitted in the Supplemental Indenture.
(c) Interest and Place of Payment. The 2004 Bonds shall bear
interest at their respective interest
rates specified in the Certificate of
Award (or, in the case of variable
rate 2004 Bonds, determined pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture). The 2004 Bonds of each Series
shall bear interest from the most
recent date to which interest has
been paid or duly provided for or, if
no interest has been paid or duly
provided for, from their date. The
principal and any redemption premium and the interest payable on
each 2004 Bond shall be payable at
the times, to the persons and in the
manner set forth in, or referenced
by,
the
Supplemental
Indenture,
including, without limitation, provisions
thereof
permitting
special
arrangements for payments to the
Depository.
(d) Maturities. The 2004 Bonds
shall mature on the principal retirement dates provided in the Certificate of Award.
(e) Optional and Mandatory Redemption. The 2004 Bonds may be
subject to redemption prior to maturity at the option of the City, if and
to the extent so provided in the Certificate of Award. Any 2004 Bonds
so determined to be subject to
optional redemption and maturing
by their stated terms after the earliest optional redemption date shall

592

April 7, 2004
be subject to redemption at the
option of the City on or after the
earliest optional redemption date in
whole or in part on any date at the
redemption prices provided in the
Certificate of Award and in accordance with the applicable Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture.
The 2004 Bonds designated in the
Certificate of Award as term bonds
subject to mandatory sinking fund
redemption shall be redeemed prior
to maturity on each mandatory
redemption date designated in the
Certificate of Award in the aggregate amount of the sinking fund
installment to be paid on such
mandatory redemption date, all as
provided in the Certificate of Award
and in accordance with the Supplemental Indenture.
(f) Execution. The 2004 Bonds
shall be signed by the persons and
in the manner set forth in the Indenture.
(g) Numbering. The 2004 Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. Authorization of Supplemental Indenture; Escrow Agreement. In order to secure the payment of the principal of and any
premium and interest on the 2004
Bonds,
the
Mayor,
Director
of
Finance and Director of Public Utilities, or any two of them, are authorized and directed, in the name and
on behalf of the City, to sign and
deliver to the Trustee, in trust for
the Original Purchasers and subsequent holders of the 2004 Bonds, one
or more Supplemental Indentures,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, not inconsistent with this Ordinance, the Certificate of Award and the Indenture
and not substantially adverse to the
City as may be approved by the officers signing the same on behalf of
the City. The determination by those
officers that a Supplemental Indenture is not substantially adverse to
the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery
of that Supplemental Indenture by
those officers.
The Mayor, Director of Finance
and Director of Public Utilities, or
any two of them, are authorized and
directed, in the name and on behalf
of the City, to sign and deliver one
or
more
Escrow
Agreements
between the City and the Trustee as
Escrow Agent, approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, providing for the establishment of an Escrow Fund as a trust
fund in the custody of the Trustee
and the investment, dedication and
application of the moneys deposited
in the accounts therein to the payment of the Refunded Bonds and
further providing for the payment of
the fees and expenses of the Trustee
for the performance of its duties as
Escrow Agent. Each Escrow Agreement shall provide for the redemption of the applicable Refunded
Bonds subject to redemption in
accordance with the Certificate of
Award and shall provide irrevocable
instruction to the Trustee to effect
such redemption in accordance with
the Indenture. The Mayor, Director
of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities, or any two of them, are
authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City, to sign and deliver agreements, approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of

April 7, 2004
Law, with one or more institutions,
including agreements to enable the
City to more efficiently structure an
Escrow Fund, and thereby maximize
debt service savings and minimize
negative arbitrage. The Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to take such other actions as may
be
necessary
or
appropriate
to
accomplish the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds, including without
limitation, the retention of a firm of
independent certified public accountants to verify that the securities to
be in an Escrow Fund are of such
maturities or redemption dates, and
interest payment dates, and bear
such interest, as will be sufficient,
together with any available moneys
in an Escrow Fund, for the payment
of debt service on the Refunded
Bonds.
Section 7. Rebate Fund. There is
hereby established and ordered to be
maintained one or more separate
accounts (except when invested as
provided in the Indenture) within
the Rebate Fund held in the custody
of the Trustee under the Indenture.
The Rebate Fund is not pledged to
the payment of debt service and is
free and clear of any pledge or lien
given under the Indenture as security for the 2004 Bonds or the Outstanding
Bonds.
Calculations
of
excess earnings that may be due
and payable to the federal government pursuant to the Code and
deposits to those accounts of the
Rebate Fund shall be made as provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture.
Section 8. Other Provisions for
Payment of Outstanding Bonds. The
City may, from time to time, deposit
funds in trust with the Trustee for
the payment of principal and interest requirements on any Outstanding Bonds if, in the judgment of the
Director of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, doing so will improve the debt
service coverage ratio of the Waterworks System (being the ratio of
Net Revenues to Annual Debt Service Requirements, as defined in the
Indenture). The Director of Finance
is authorized to deposit into an
escrow fund, from time to time, moneys transferred from Fund No. 52-001
of the Water Division, in amounts
that, in the aggregate, do not exceed
$50,000,000, with the actual amount
of any deposit to be determined by
the Director of Finance in consultation with the Director of Public Utilities. In order to cause any amounts
so deposited to be dedicated and
applied solely to the payment of the
principal of and interest and any
redemption premium on the designated Outstanding Bonds, as and
when due at maturity or upon prior
redemption, the Mayor, Director of
Finance and Director of Public Utilities, or any two of them, are authorized and directed, in the name and
on behalf of the City, to sign and
deliver one or more escrow agreements approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for the establishment of an
escrow fund as a trust fund in the
custody of the Trustee and the
investment, dedication and application of the moneys deposited therein and further providing for the payment to the Trustee of fees and

The City Record
expenses for its performance of its
duties under the agreement. The
officers signing the agreement on
behalf of the City shall determine
that the agreement satisfies the
requirements of this Section, and
that determination shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the agreement by those officers. The
Mayor, Director of Finance and
Director of Public Utilities, or any
two of them, are authorized, in the
name and on behalf of the City, to
sign
and
deliver
agreements,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, with one or
more institutions, including agreements which will enable the City to
more
efficiently
structure
any
escrow funds established pursuant
to this Section, and thereby maximize debt service savings and minimize negative arbitrage. The Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to take such other actions
as may be necessary or appropriate
to accomplish any defeasance of the
designated Outstanding Bonds to be
paid from any escrow fund, including without limitation, the retention
of a firm of independent certified
public accountants to verify that the
securities to be deposited in escrow
are of such maturities or redemption
dates, and interest payment dates,
and bear such interest, as will be
sufficient, together with any available moneys, for the payment of
debt service on the designated Outstanding Bonds.
Section 9. Interest Hedge Agreements. This Council finds that by
engaging in interest hedge transactions, from time to time, the City
can, in effect, convert interest on all
or a portion of the 2004 Bonds from
a fixed rate to a floating rate, or
from a floating rate to a fixed rate,
or exchange one floating rate for
another floating rate with respect to
all or any portion of the 2004 Bonds
or otherwise hedge its interest rate
risk and thereby may reduce its cost
of borrowing by optimizing the relative amounts of fixed and floating
rate obligations or minimizing the
risk of variations in its debt service
costs or maximizing savings. To permit the City to have the flexibility
to undertake interest rate swap,
swaption, rate cap, rate collar and
other hedging transactions, from
time to time, and to establish the
procedures
for
approving
those
transactions, this Council authorizes
the execution and delivery of one or
more hedge agreements (each, a
“Hedge Agreement”) and any related agreements necessary for the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated by each Hedge Agreement.
The Director of Finance may
authorize one or more interest rate
hedge transactions in accordance
with the applicable Hedge Agreement; provided that (a) the maximum aggregate notional amount of
interest rate hedge transactions outstanding at any one time, net of offsetting interest rate hedge transactions, shall not exceed such amount
as will result in a lowering of the
ratings assigned to the Bonds by the
rating agencies, as is evidenced by
written correspondence from the rating agencies or policies published in
writing by the rating agencies, and
(b) the term of each interest rate

593

7
swap transaction shall not exceed 30
years. The approval of each interest
rate hedge transaction by the Director of Finance shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing and delivery of the applicable Hedge Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of a swap advisor or
other financial advisor determined
by the Director of Finance to be
knowledgeable about hedging transactions to advise the City concerning any Hedge Agreement undertaken pursuant to this Section.
The City’s payment obligations
under each Hedge Agreement shall
be payable from the Net Revenues
of the Waterworks System and may
be secured by a pledge of the Net
Revenues on a parity with the
pledge given under the Indenture to
secure
Bonds,
subject
to
the
requirements of Article XI of the
Indenture with respect to Parity
Obligations. The obligation of the
City to make payments under a
Hedge Agreement does not and
shall not represent or constitute a
general obligation, debt, bonded
indebtedness or a pledge of the faith
and credit of the City. Nothing shall
give any party to a Hedge Agreement the right to have excises, ad
valorem or other taxes levied by the
City or the State for the payment of
any amounts due under a Hedge
Agreement.
Section 10. Covenants of the City.
The City, by issuance of the 2004
Bonds, covenants and agrees with
the Holders of the 2004 Bonds, that:
(a) The City will use the proceeds
of the 2004 Bonds to refinance any
Refunded
Bonds,
to
fund
any
required deposit to the Debt Service
Reserve Fund, and to pay costs
relating to the issuance of the 2004
Bonds.
(b) The Clerk, or other appropriate officer of the City, will furnish
to the Original Purchasers and to
the Trustee a true transcript of proceedings, certified by the Clerk or
other officer, of all proceedings had
with reference to the issuance of the
2004 Bonds, together with information from the City’s records as is
necessary to determine the regularity and validity of the issuance of
the 2004 Bonds.
(c) The City will, at any and all
times, cause to be done all such further acts and things and cause to be
signed and delivered all further
instruments as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose of the 2004
Bonds and this Ordinance or as may
be required by Section 13, Article
XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio or
the Charter of the City or the Indenture or the applicable Supplemental
Indenture and will comply with all
requirements of law applicable to
the Waterworks System and the
operation thereof.
(d) The City will observe and perform all its agreements and obligations provided for in the 2004 Bonds,
this Ordinance, the Indenture and
each Supplemental Indenture. All of
the obligations under this Ordinance
and the Indenture and each Supplemental Indenture are hereby established
as
duties
specifically
enjoined by law and resulting from
an office, trust or station upon the
City within the meaning of Section
2731.01, Ohio Revised Code.

8
(e) The City will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the 2004 Bonds in
such manner and to such extent as
may be necessary so that (a) the
2004 Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Code or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (b) the interest thereon will not
be treated as an item of tax preference under Section 57 of the Code.
(f) The City covenants that (a) it
will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it
for the interest on the 2004 Bonds to
be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions
that would adversely affect that
exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the 2004 Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property acquired with those proceeds, (iii) make timely rebate payments to the federal government,
(iv) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all
in such manner and to the extent
necessary to assure such exclusion
of that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the 2004 Bonds
is also made with respect to all
issues for which any portion of the
debt service is paid from proceeds
of the 2004 Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding issues in a series of refundings),
to the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on the 2004 Bonds from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the Director of Finance,
or any other officer having responsibility with respect to the 2004
Bonds, is authorized to take such
actions with respect to those issues
as they are authorized in this section to take with respect to the 2004
Bonds.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance or any other officer of the
City having responsibility for the
issuance of the 2004 Bonds is authorized (a) to make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice,
consent, approval or waiver on
behalf of the City with respect to
the 2004 Bonds as the City is permitted or required to make or give
under the federal income tax laws,
including, without limitation, any of
the elections available under Section
148 of the Code, for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting
the favorable tax treatment or status of the 2004 Bonds or interest
thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with requirements for that purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount or payments or penalties, or
making
payments
of
special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amount or payments, as
determined by that officer, (b) to
take any and all other actions, make

The City Record
or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and
on behalf of the City, as may be
appropriate to assure the exclusion
of interest from gross income and
the intended tax status of the 2004
Bonds, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the 2004 Bonds, setting
forth the reasonable expectations of
the City regarding the amount and
use of all the proceeds of the 2004
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment or status of the 2004 Bonds and interest
thereon.
Section 11. Authorization of Bond
Rating and Credit Enhancement.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, the filing of applications for one or more ratings on
the 2004 Bonds by one or more
nationally recognized rating agencies or for Credit Support Instruments are necessary or desirable
for marketing purposes, the Director of Finance is authorized to prepare and submit any or all of those
applications, to provide information as may be required in support
of those applications and to provide for the payment of the costs
of
ratings
and
Credit
Support
Instruments from proceeds of the
2004 Bonds or funds of the Water
Division, which are appropriated
for the purpose.
Section 12. Authorization of Official Statement. The Director of
Finance, the Director of Public Utilities and the Commissioner of the
Division of Water are each authorized and directed to cooperate in
the preparation of and (with respect
only to the Official Statements) to
sign, on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities, one or more
Preliminary Official Statements and
final
Official
Statements,
as
described in the applicable Bond
Purchase Agreement for the applicable Series of 2004 Bonds, to serve
as disclosure documents in connection with the public offering and
sale of the 2004 Bonds. Those officers are authorized to use and distribute, or to authorize the use and
distribution of, the Preliminary Official Statements and the final Official Statements and any supplements to them in connection with
the original issuance of the 2004
Bonds. The Mayor, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Public Utilities, the Commissioner of the Division of Water and the Director of
Law are further authorized to sign
and deliver, on behalf of the City
and in their official capacities, acting alone or together, certificates
with respect to the accuracy of each
Preliminary Official Statement and
final Official Statement and any
supplements to them as may be
required under the applicable Bond
Purchase Agreement or as may, in
their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. The Director of Finance
is authorized and directed to contract for services for the production
and distribution of the Preliminary
Official Statements and final Offi-

594

April 7, 2004
cial Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
Section 13. Continuing Disclosure
Agreement. In compliance with Rule
15c2-12 promulgated by the Securities
and
Exchange
Commission
(“SEC”), the City shall enter into
one or more Continuing Disclosure
Agreements, approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the
Trustee, substantially in the form
now on file with the Clerk in the
File referenced in Section 1 of this
Ordinance, with any changes that
are not substantially adverse to the
City as may be approved by the officer signing those Agreements on
behalf of the City. The approval of
any changes to a Continuing Disclosure Agreement by that officer
and the determination by that officer that no such change is substantially adverse to the City shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing of that Continuing Disclosure
Agreement by that officer. In each
Continuing Disclosure Agreement,
the City shall agree to provide, or
cause to be provided, to each nationally recognized municipal securities
information repository designated
by the SEC from time to time in
accordance with that Rule, and to
any state information depository,
the annual financial information
and operating data and notices of
specified events required by that
Rule, as more particularly described
in the Continuing Disclosure Agreement.
The
Mayor,
Director
of
Finance and Director of Public Utilities, or any one of them, are authorized and directed to sign and deliver
each
Continuing
Disclosure
Agreement and any related agreements, certificates and other instruments, and to deliver such information, as may be necessary or appropriate to comply with the requirements of the Rule. The City understands and agrees that those commitments are intended to be for the
benefit of the holders from time to
time of the 2004 Bonds, including
holders of book-entry interests in
those Bonds.
Section 14. Authorization of Other
Documents.
To
provide
for
the
issuance and sale of the 2004 Bonds
and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance, the Indenture, each Bond Purchase Agreement, each Supplemental
Indenture, each Escrow Agreement,
any agreement delivered pursuant to
Section 8 and each Hedge Agreement, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance and the Director of Public
Utilities, or any one of them, and
such other officers of the City as
may be appropriate, are authorized
and directed to sign, acknowledge
and deliver, in the name and on
behalf of the City, such documents,
certifications and instruments as
may be necessary or appropriate to
issue the 2004 Bonds and to consummate those transactions.
Section 15. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
adoption of this Ordinance were
adopted in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council, and of any of its com-

April 7, 2004
mittees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with the law.
Section 16. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. The City determines,
represents and recites that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the
issuance of the 2004 Bonds in order
to make the 2004 Bonds legal, valid
and binding obligations of the City
have or will have happened or have
or will have been done and performed in regular and due form as
required by law and the City’s Charter; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation, either statutory
or constitutional, is applicable to the
2004 Bonds or their issuance. It is
further found and determined, and
is represented and recited, that the
provisions of the City’s Charter and
the rules of this Council have been
fully complied with and that this
Ordinance was adopted in conformity therewith.
Section 17. Severability. In case
any section or provision of this Ordinance, or in case any covenant, stipulation, obligation, agreement, act
or action made, assumed or taken
under this Ordinance, is for any reason held to be illegal or invalid, or
is at any time inoperable by reason
of any law, that illegality or inoperability shall not affect any other
section or provision of this Ordinance, or any other covenant, stipulation, obligation, agreement, act or
action made, assumed or taken
under this Ordinance. This Ordinance
shall
be
construed
and
enforced as if such illegal or invalid
or inoperable portion were not contained in it. Any such illegality or
invalidity or inoperability shall not
affect any legal and valid and operable application from time to time,
and each such section, provision,
covenant,
stipulation,
obligation,
agreement, act or action shall be
deemed to be effective, operative,
made or taken in the manner and to
the full extent from time to time
permitted by law.
Section 18. Effective Date. This
Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the reasons
set forth in the preambles. Those
preambles are made a part hereof.
Provided that this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to this
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise, it shall take effect and
be in force from and after the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 575-04.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts for the transfer and disposal of tires, for the
Division of Waste Collection and
Disposal, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the term of one year or two years
for the necessary items of the transfer and disposal of tires in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal, Department of Public
Service.
Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items of services as a
single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of
the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Service is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Bids shall also be taken so as to
permit an award to be made for provision of such services citywide or
by separate contracts for the districts determined by the Director of
Public Service.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Public
Service may require that each bid be
accompanied by a single bond securing both the execution of a contract
and the performance of the term of
each contract. If a single bond
securing both execution and performance is required by the Director, it
shall be substantially in accordance
with the form attached as Exhibit
“A”. Each bond, whether to secure
the execution of a contract, its performance, or both, shall be in an
amount determined by the Director
of Public Service. Each bond submitted to secure the contract or contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be executed by a surety authorized to do business in the State of
Ohio and shall be acceptable to the
Director of Law.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase,
which
purchase,
together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contacts certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 130444)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

595

9
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
BID GUARANTY AND
CONTRACT BOND
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS, that we the __________
____________________________________
____________________________________
(Name and Address)
as Principal and __________________
(Name of Surety)
as Surety are hereby held and firmly bound unto the City of Cleveland,
hereinafter called the Obligee, in the
penal sum hereinafter stated, pertaining to the bid submitted by the
Principal
to
the
Obligee
on
__________________________ (date) to
undertake the project known ______
____________________________________
____________________________________
____________________________________
The penal sum referred to herein
shall be ___________________________
____________________________________
____________________________________
_______________________________. For
the payment of the penal sum well
and truly to be made, we hereby
jointly and severally bind ourselves,
our heirs, executors, administrators,
successors, and assigns.
THE
CONDITION
OF
THE
ABOVE OBLIGATION IS SUCH, that
whereas the above named Principal
has submitted a bid on the above
referred project;
NOW, THEREFORE, if the Obligee accepts the bid of the Principal
and the Principal fails to enter into
a proper contract in accordance with
the bid, plans, details, specifications,
and bills of material; and in the
event the Principal pays to the
Obligee the difference not to exceed
ten percent of the penalty hereof
between the amount specified in the
bid and such larger amount for
which the Obligee may in good faith
contract with the next lowest and
best bidder to perform the work covered by the bid; or in the event the
Obligee does not award the contract
to the next lowest and best bidder
and resubmits the project for bidding, the Principal will pay the
Obligee the difference not to exceed
ten percent of the penalty hereof
between the amount specified in the
bid, or the costs in connection with
the resubmission, of printing new
contract documents, required advertising, and printing and mailing
notices
to
prospective
bidders,
whichever is less, then this obligation shall be void, otherwise to
remain in full force and effect. If
the Obligee accepts the bid of the
Principal and the Principal within
ten days after the awarding of the
contract and submitting to the Principal a contract for execution, enters
into a proper contract in accordance
with the bid, plans, details, specifications, and bills of material, which
said contract is made a part of this
bond the same as though set forth
herein; and
IF THE SAID Principal shall well
and faithfully perform each and
every condition of such contract;
and indemnify the Obligee against
all damage suffered by failure to
perform such contract according to

The City Record

10
the provisions thereof and in accordance with the plans, details, specifications, and bills of material therefor; and shall pay all lawful claims
of subcontractors, materialmen, and
laborers for labor performed and
materials furnished in the carrying
forward, performing, or completing
said contract; we agreeing and
assenting
that
this
undertaking
shall be for the benefit of any materialman or laborer having a just
claim as well as for the Obligee
herein; then this obligation shall be
void;
otherwise
the
same
shall
remain in full force and effect; it
being
expressly
understood
and
agreed that the liability of the Surety for any and all claims hereunder
shall in no event exceed the penal
amount of this obligation as herein
stated.
THE SAID Surety hereby stipulates and agrees that no modifications, omissions, or additions, in or
to the terms of said contract or in
or to the plans and specifications
therefor shall in any wise affect the
obligations of said Surety on this
bond, and it does hereby waive
notice of any such modifications,
omissions or additions to the terms
of the contract or to the work or to
the specifications.
SIGNED AND SEALED this day of
____________, 20___.
PRINCIPAL:

SURETY:

_______________

___________________

BY: __________

BY: ______________
Attorney-in-Fact

TITLE: _______
SURETY COMPANY ADDRESS:
_________________________________
Street
_________________________________
City
State
ZIP
SURETY AGENT’S ADDRESS:
_________________________________
Agency Name
_________________________________
Street
_________________________________
City
State
ZIP
“Exhibit A”
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 576-04.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into amendments to the Master Leases with various airlines at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport to modify the leased premises of the affected airlines.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into amendments to the contracts
listed below between the City of
Cleveland and various airlines at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport to modify the amount of
each airlines’ leased premises to the
areas and square footage described
in File No. 576-04-A. All other terms
and conditions contained in the original agreements shall remain the
same.
Contract No. Airline
55337
31083
38171
30883
31263
46540
28672

31262

Air Canada
American Airlines, Inc.
Continental Airlines, Inc.
Delta Air Lines, Inc.
Northwest Airlines, Inc.
Southwest Airlines Co.
US Airways, Inc.
(successor-in-interest to
Allegheny Airlines, Inc.)
United Air Lines, Inc.

Section 2. That the amendments
shall be effective January 1, 2004, be
prepared by the Director of Law,
and contain other terms and conditions that the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 577-04.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts for the transfer and disposal of tires, for the
Division of Waste Collection and
Disposal, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the term of one year or two years
for the necessary items of the transfer and disposal of tires in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal, Department of Public
Service. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items of services as a
single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of

596

April 7, 2004
the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Service is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Bids shall also be taken so as to
permit an award to be made for provision of such services citywide or
by separate contracts for the districts determined by the Director of
Public Service.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Public
Service may require that each bid be
accompanied by a single bond securing both the execution of a contract
and the performance of the term of
each contract. If a single bond
securing both execution and performance is required by the Director, it
shall be substantially in accordance
with the form attached as Exhibit
“A”. Each bond, whether to secure
the execution of a contract, its performance, or both, shall be in an
amount determined by the Director
of Public Service. Each bond submitted to secure the contract or contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be executed by a surety authorized to do business in the State of
Ohio and shall be acceptable to the
Director of Law.
Section 3. That the cost of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation account and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies
under
a
requisition
against the contract or contacts
certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance. (RL 130444)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
BID GUARANTY AND
CONTRACT BOND
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENTS, that we the __________
____________________________________
____________________________________
(Name and Address)
as Principal and __________________
(Name of Surety)
as Surety are hereby held and firmly bound unto the City of Cleveland,
hereinafter called the Obligee, in the
penal sum hereinafter stated, per-

April 7, 2004
taining to the bid submitted by the
Principal
to
the
Obligee
on
__________________________ (date) to
undertake the project known ______
____________________________________
____________________________________
____________________________________
The penal sum referred to herein
shall be ___________________________
____________________________________
____________________________________
_______________________________. For
the payment of the penal sum well
and truly to be made, we hereby
jointly and severally bind ourselves,
our heirs, executors, administrators,
successors, and assigns.
THE
CONDITION
OF
THE
ABOVE OBLIGATION IS SUCH, that
whereas the above named Principal
has submitted a bid on the above
referred project;
NOW, THEREFORE, if the Obligee accepts the bid of the Principal
and the Principal fails to enter into
a proper contract in accordance with
the bid, plans, details, specifications,
and bills of material; and in the
event the Principal pays to the
Obligee the difference not to exceed
ten percent of the penalty hereof
between the amount specified in the
bid and such larger amount for
which the Obligee may in good faith
contract with the next lowest and
best bidder to perform the work
covered by the bid; or in the event
the Obligee does not award the contract to the next lowest and best
bidder and resubmits the project for
bidding, the Principal will pay the
Obligee the difference not to exceed
ten percent of the penalty hereof
between the amount specified in the
bid, or the costs in connection with
the resubmission, of printing new
contract documents, required advertising, and printing and mailing
notices
to
prospective
bidders,
whichever is less, then this obligation shall be void, otherwise to
remain in full force and effect. If
the Obligee accepts the bid of the
Principal and the Principal within
ten days after the awarding of the
contract and submitting to the Principal a contract for execution, enters
into a proper contract in accordance
with the bid, plans, details, specifications, and bills of material, which
said contract is made a part of this
bond the same as though set forth
herein; and
IF THE SAID Principal shall well
and faithfully perform each and
every condition of such contract;
and indemnify the Obligee against
all damage suffered by failure to
perform such contract according to
the provisions thereof and in accordance with the plans, details, specifications, and bills of material therefor; and shall pay all lawful claims
of subcontractors, materialmen, and
laborers for labor performed and
materials furnished in the carrying
forward, performing, or completing
said contract; we agreeing and
assenting
that
this
undertaking
shall be for the benefit of any materialman or laborer having a just
claim as well as for the Obligee
herein; then this obligation shall be
void;
otherwise
the
same
shall
remain in full force and effect; it
being
expressly
understood
and
agreed that the liability of the Sure-

The City Record

11

ty for any and all claims hereunder
shall in no event exceed the penal
amount of this obligation as herein
stated.
THE SAID Surety hereby stipulates and agrees that no modifications, omissions, or additions, in or
to the terms of said contract or in
or to the plans and specifications
therefor shall in any wise affect the
obligations of said Surety on this
bond, and it does hereby waive
notice of any such modifications,
omissions or additions to the terms
of the contract or to the work or to
the specifications.
SIGNED AND SEALED this day of
____________, 20___.

Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-600402601500, Request No. 128932.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.

PRINCIPAL:

SURETY:

_______________

___________________

BY: __________

BY: ______________
Attorney-in-Fact

Ord. No. 579-04.
By Council Members Johnson, Gordon, Sweeney, Cimperman, and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
infrastructure improvements for the
St. Luke’s housing development project; and authorizing the Directors
of
Community
Development
and
Public Service to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of constructing
infrastructure improvements for the
St. Luke’s housing development project, for the Departments of Community Development and Public Service, by one or more contracts duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Community Development and Public
Service, as appropriate, are authorized to enter into one or more contracts for the making of the public
improvement
with
the
lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 363, 20
SF 372, 20 SF 379, and 20 SF 393,
Request No. 125756.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
City Planning Commission, Finance,
Law; Committees on Community and
Economic Development, Public Service, City Planning, Finance.

TITLE: _______
SURETY COMPANY ADDRESS:
_________________________________
Street
_________________________________
City
State
ZIP
SURETY AGENT’S ADDRESS:
_________________________________
Agency Name
_________________________________
Street
_________________________________
City
State
ZIP
“Exhibit A”
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 578-04.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
PinPoint Technologies, Inc. for the
purchase of pen-base technical support and software upgrades, for the
Division of Emergency Medical Service, Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council has
determined that the within commodities are non-competitive and
cannot be secured from any source
other than PinPoint Technologies,
Inc. Therefore the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written contracts with PinPoint Technologies, Inc., on the
basis of its proposal dated December 19, 2003, for pen-base technical
support and software upgrades, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies, for a
gross price for the Division of Emergency Medical Service, Department
of Public Safety.

597

12
Ord. No. 580-04.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon, and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Education Loan Servicing Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the Education Lending Group, Inc.
to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the
purchase of personal property and to
make interior leasehold improvements to the property located at
1500 West 3rd Street, and all other
associated costs to redevelop the
property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contract with
Education Loan Servicing Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the Education Lending Group, Inc.
to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the
purchase of personal property and to
make interior leasehold improvements to the property located at
1500 West 3rd Street, and all other
associated costs to redevelop the
property.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 580-04-A.
Section 3. That the costs of the contract shall not exceed Three Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($300,000.00), and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 17 SF
008 and 12 SF 954, which funds are
appropriated for this purpose, Request No. 103616.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the file referenced above in
order to secure repayment of the
loan. Any security instrument shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund Nos. 17 SF 006 and
12 SF 958.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contract and other documents that
are appropriate to complete the
transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Com-

The City Record
mittees on Community and
nomic Development, Finance.

April 7, 2004
Eco-

Ord. No. 581-04.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon, and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Education
Loan Servicing Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Education Lending Group, Inc. to provide
for a ten-year, seventy-five percent
tax abatement for certain tangible
personal property located at 1500
West 3rd Street
in the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised Code
and certified the area as an “Urban
Jobs and Enterprise Zone” under
Chapter 5709 of the Revised Code;
and
Whereas, Education Loan Servicing Corporation, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Education Lending
Group, Inc. (the “Enterprise”) has
proposed
to
invest,
locate,
and
expand its loan servicing operations
at 1500 West 3rd Street in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City it would be at a
competitive disadvantage operating
at this location if taxes on certain
tangible personal property were not
abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property, and welfare and that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, and the
assistance is immediately necessary
or jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten-year, seventyfive percent (75%) tax abatement
for certain tangible personal property; the abatement shall be subject
to annual review of the Tax Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 581-04-A
These terms shall not be amended,
nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferable to any
entity, without the prior legislative

598

authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
listed in Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code.
The fees shall be deposited
to and expended from Fund No. 17
SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve the
agreement and that the agreement
shall contain the terms and provisions the Director deems necessary
to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Directors
of Economic Development, Finance,
Law; Committees on Community and
Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 582-04.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1956-98,
passed December 7, 1998, as amended by Ordinance No. 1193-03, passed
July 16, 2003, relating to a requirement contract of various plumbing
and heating equipment and supplies,
including related materials and supplies, for the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, for a
period of three years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1956-98, passed December
7, 1998, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1193-03, passed July 16, 2003, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall not exceed $370,000 and
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together
with all subsequent purchases, shall
be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a requisition against such
contract duly certified by the Director of Finance. (RL 21709)
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1956-98, passed December
7, 1998, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1193-03, passed July 16, 2003, is
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property, and Recreation, Finance.

April 7, 2004
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 583-04.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 670B.02 and 670B.03 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1989-01, passed October 22, 2001,
and Section 670B.05 thereof, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02,
passed February 3, 2003, relating to
the regulation of outdoor pay telephones.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 670B.02
and 670B.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1989-01,
passed October 22, 2001, and Section
670B.05 thereof, as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February
3, 2003, are amended to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 670B.02 Requirements for
License
and
Contracts;
Permits;
Location Requirements
(a) No person shall engage in the
business of providing and installing
outdoor pay telephones on private
property, and no person shall install,
place or maintain an outdoor pay
telephone
on
private
property,
unless the owner has a biennial outdoor pay telephone license. This prohibition applies to any outdoor pay
telephone installed prior to or after
the effective date of this Chapter.
(b) No person shall engage in the
business of providing and installing
outdoor pay telephones in the public right-of-way, and no person shall
install, place or maintain an outdoor
pay telephone within the public
right-of-way unless the owner of the
telephone has entered into a biennial contract with the Director that
grants to such owner the privilege
of installing and maintaining outdoor pay telephones in the public
right-of-way. This prohibition applies to any outdoor pay telephone
installed prior to or after the effective date of this Chapter. This prohibition also applies to any outdoor
pay telephone that is attached to or
mounted on a building or other
structure
when
such
telephone
extends above or into the right-ofway, and any outdoor pay telephone
located in the right-of-way that is
attached to a building or structure
by a wire or cable.
(c) No person shall engage in the
business of providing and installing
outdoor pay telephones on private
property or in the right-of-way, and
no person shall install, place or
maintain an outdoor pay telephone
on private property or in the rightof-way unless the owner has a biennial
permit
for
each
telephone
installed,
placed
or
maintained,
issued
in
accordance
with
the
requirements of this Chapter.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any
person to install, own or maintain,
or to allow the installation or maintenance of, an outdoor pay telephone
on private property or the public
right-of-way under any of the following circumstances:
(1) On any vacant private property;

The City Record
(2) On any private property where
any or all buildings are vacant;
(3) On any private property that
has a premises licensed for the sale
of alcoholic liquor (other than beer
or wine);
(4) In a residential use district as
defined in the Zoning Code of the
City, or within 50 feet of a residential dwelling unit in a residential
use district;
(5) At a location where use from
a vehicle is possible which would
cause the vehicle to stand in a driveway or aisle in a parking lot or
in the right-of-way;
(6) Within 5 feet of any area used
for vehicular ingress or egress or an
aisle way in a parking area for
vehicular travel;
(7) Within 5 feet of the entrance
or exit to any structure, a crosswalk, a bus shelter, a fire exit or
escape, a mail box, parking meter,
police or fire call box, traffic control box, fire hydrant or sidewalk
elevator, or that blocks or restricts
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or
(8) On any property or at any
location that has been determined
by the Director of Public Safety to
create a nuisance based upon prior
actual use.
(e) No dial tone provider shall
provide dial tone to any outdoor pay
telephone on private property or in
the right-of-way without first verifying that the pay telephone has
been permitted by the City pursuant
to this Chapter.
(f) All outdoor pay telephones on
private property or in the right-ofway must: automatically block all
incoming calls and provide outgoing
only service; prevent the use of
pagers
or
beepers;
use
electric
wiring, not telephone wire, for electric connections; be well lighted if
available
for
use
during
hours
between sunset and sunrise, which
may include ambient lighting; and
be kept free from graffiti and stickers not placed by the owner, and
kept clean.
(g) Any outdoor pay telephone
placed or installed on private property or in the right-of-way shall be
either a so-called “smart phone”
equipped with a built in computer
or a “smart line” phone, and shall
have the capability to make the telephone inoperative for designated
periods of time, to provide lists of
each outgoing call as to the number
called, its duration, and the date and
time of the call, shall have built in
volume control and shall have a key
pad that prevents the use of pagers
or beepers.
(h) No outdoor pay telephone
shall be placed or installed at any
location on private property or in
the right-of-way that is within 500
feet of any other outdoor pay telephone, whether on private property
or in the right-of way.
(i)
The 500 feet restrictions in
this Section shall not apply to any
retail gas service station. The 500
feet restrictions shall also not apply
to: the Central Business District as
defined in Section 325.12 of the Codified Ordinances; the Flats Oxbow
Revitalization District; the University Circle institutional area defined
as the area included within and
bounded by both sides of East 105
Street, East Boulevard, Ford Road,
and Euclid Avenue; Regional Transit Authority rapid stations and the
adjacent right-of-way; hospitals, universities, and Cuyahoga Community
College and the adjacent right-of-

599

13
way; and strip shopping centers and
the adjacent right-of-way. All other
requirements of this Chapter apply
to outdoor pay telephones in the
areas named in this division.
(j) An owner may apply in writing to the Commissioner for an
exemption from the 500 feet restriction to place multiple outdoor pay
telephones at one location, due to a
demonstrated appropriate use or
need for additional outdoor pay telephones as a result of a high level
of pedestrian and automobile traffic,
and a concentration of heavy usage
of pay telephones at that location.
Any
such
application
shall
be
referred to the Director of Planning
for review and approval, and if so
approved, shall be submitted to
Council for action. If Council passes
an
ordinance
approving
the
exemption, such ordinance shall be
forwarded to the Commissioner who
shall attach the approved exemption
to the license of the owner or as an
amendment to the owner’s contract,
and the owner then may apply for
permits for additional phones, as
approved.
(k) For the purposes of this section, the submission of a completed
application for a permit for a telephone on private property or in the
right-of-way, shall be considered a
placement of a pay telephone.
Section 670B.03 Contracts with
Outdoor
Pay
Telephone
Owners;
Public Right-of-Way
(a) Any owner may enter into a
biennial contract with the Director
that grants to the owner the privilege of installing and maintaining
outdoor pay telephones in the public right-of-way for a period of two
years, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the contract and
this Chapter.
(b) Any contract entered into pursuant to division (a) of this section
must include as terms and conditions at a minimum all of the
requirements of this Chapter applicable to pay telephones in the rightof-way;
however,
the
City
may
impose additional requirements and
restrictions on pay telephones in the
right-of-way in the contract with an
owner, but no such requirements
may unnecessarily discriminate in
favor of or against any owner.
(c) Owners with a contract to
install telephones in the right-ofway shall apply for permits under
Section 670B.05 for each telephone.
Applications for permits shall be
given preference for purposes of
determining compliance with the
distance requirements in the order
that they are received.
(d) The Director shall determine
whether to approve the proposed
location of all outdoor pay telephone
to be installed and maintained in
the right-of-way, and in doing so
shall consider the following factors
in addition to other requirements of
this Chapter:
(1) Possible obstruction of pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
(2) The size of the telephone and
any booth stand, or pole;
(3) The ability to provide access
by disabled persons;
(4) The proliferation of visual
clutter; and
(5) Such other factors as are
delineated in the contract.
(e) Any outdoor pay telephone
installed and maintained in the
right-of-way must:
(1) Allow a “direct dial” of 911
without the need to first use a coin

14
or a credit card or the need to dial
the operator;
(2) Have a functioning coin return mechanism;
(3) Have affixed in a readily visible place a notice setting forth the
name of the owner, the owner’s telephone number for repair and the
telephone number or serial number
of the outdoor pay telephone;
(4) Be maintained in a properly
functioning, clean, neat and attractive condition, free of rust and free
of danger of electrical shock;
(5) Not be used for advertising
signs or publicity of any sort; and
(6) Be in full compliance with all
state and federal laws and regulations, including this Chapter.
(f) The owner of each outdoor pay
telephone shall indemnify the City
and hold it harmless from any and
all claims or liability arising from
any act of the owner, or failure to
act, in the installation, maintenance
and operation of the telephone. The
owner shall submit to the Commissioner, at its own expense, general
liability insurance to protect the
owner and the City from all claims
for damage to property or bodily
injury, including death. The insurance shall be in an amount not less
than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) combined single limit, and
shall provide that the insurance coverage shall not be canceled or reduced by the insurance carrier without thirty (30) days’ prior written
notice to the City. A certificate of
such insurance shall be provided to
the Director at the time of execution
of the contract and shall be maintained before and during the installation of any telephone in accordance with the contract and throughout the period that the contract for
any telephone is in effect. The Director may accept documentation that
the owner has a self-insurance retention plan in lieu of insurance, provided that the Director determines
that the coverage is equivalent or
better than the insurance coverage
required by this division.
Section 670B.05 Biennial Outdoor
Pay Telephone Permits Required
(a) Prior to the installation or
placement of an outdoor pay telephone on private property or in the
right-of-way, and biennially thereafter, the owner of the telephone
shall submit an application for a
permit to the Commissioner upon
forms to be prescribed by the Commissioner.
The
applicant
may
request that documents and information provided to the Commissioner be considered confidential and
not public records by labeling such
documents or information as “Confidential and Proprietary,” and the
Commissioner shall disclose such
documents or information only to
those parties to whom disclosure is
necessary to carry out the provisions of this Chapter, unless otherwise required by law. The application shall include the following
information:
(1) The name, address, telephone
number and federal tax identification or social security number of the
owner;
(2) The number of the owner’s
outdoor pay telephone license or
contract, as applicable;
(3) The serial number or telephone number and dimensions of the
outdoor pay telephone and any
enclosure;

The City Record
(4) A description of the services
provided for the users of the outdoor
pay telephone, including any special
telephone features or restrictions;
(5) If the telephone was or will
be placed, installed and maintained
by a licensee, the name, address and
telephone number of the property
owner and any lessees of the property where the outdoor pay telephone is or will be located;
(6) A drawing of the location of
the telephone for which the permit
is requested and the location of any
telephone within 500 feet of that
telephone;
(7) A description of the source
and brightness of lighting of the
telephone by built-in or ambient
lighting;
(8) Any other information as the
Commissioner deems necessary to
ensure compliance with this Chapter.
(b) A biennial permit fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per telephone installed or to be installed
shall be submitted with the application. This permit fee is for the
purpose of defraying the expenses
incident to the administration of the
provisions of this Chapter.
(c) The owner shall promptly notify the Commissioner in writing of
any
change
in
the
information
required by division (a) of this Section. The owner must submit a written notice of the removal of any
telephone to the Commissioner prior
to the removal. No refund of fees
previously paid shall be made for
telephones removed by the owner,
the City or otherwise. If the owner
plans to change the location of a
telephone that is already permitted,
or install a new phone at the same
location, the owner must submit a
new application for a permit and the
fee to defray the expenses incident
to the administration of the provisions of this Chapter. No additional fee or permit application is
required to replace a broken or
defective telephone, or to permanently relocate a telephone 10 feet
or less once per permit period or to
relocate a telephone temporarily on
the same property for a period of
less than 90 days. An owner must
notify the Commissioner of any relocation allowed by this division within 30 days of the relocation.
(d) A copy of each application for
a permit and any notice of a removal
shall be provided by the Commissioner to the Director of Public Safety, the Director of Public Service, and
the Council member in whose ward
the telephone is proposed to be
installed. The Commissioner shall
refer each application for a permit to
the Commissioner of Building and
Housing for review and approval.
The Commissioner of Building and
Housing shall determine whether or
not the provisions of the Building or
Zoning Codes would be violated by
the installation of the telephone, and
particularly, set back requirements,
use restrictions, restrictions as to
attachments to structures, and if
located in a parking lot, the Zoning
requirement that a specified number
of parking spaces be available for
use by the business. These officials
shall notify the Director in writing of
any objections to the permit within
thirty days after receiving the application.
(e) If an application for a permit
is for the placement of a pay telephone in a design review district,

600

April 7, 2004
then the Commissioner shall also
refer it to the City Planning Commission or Landmarks Commission,
whichever is applicable, and that
commission shall notify the Director
in writing of any objections to the
permit within thirty days after
receiving the application. In deciding whether or not to object to the
issuance of the permit, the City
Planning Commission or Landmarks
Commission, acting in accordance
with its rules and regulations, shall
consider whether the placement of
the phone is consistent with the
design review standards for the district; whether it is consistent with
other streetscape elements in the
vicinity and any overall streetscape
plan for the district; whether there
have been streetscape improvements
in the area such as special lighting,
landscaping, pavers, and the like;
whether there is any visual clutter
concerns if a pay telephone is
installed; and whether there are any
architectural or historical considerations. As used in this division,
“design review district” means any
area in which building permits
require review and approval of
either the City Planning Commission or the Landmarks Commission.
(f) A permit application shall be
disapproved if a telephone has been
determined to be a nuisance pursuant to this Chapter within 500 feet
of the proposed telephone location
within the previous two years, and
may be disapproved if the applicant
has violated this Chapter within the
previous one year.
(g) Upon receipt of a completed
application that demonstrates that
the telephone will be in compliance
with this chapter and all required
information and fees, the Commissioner shall issue to the owner an
outdoor pay telephone permit and
shall provide the owner with a label
to be affixed to each telephone identifying the registration number and
location of the telephone. The Commissioner shall ordinarily approve
or disapprove a permit within 45
days of the receipt of a completed
application and fee, unless the exercise of due diligence by the Commissioner requires that a longer
period of time be taken.
A telephone for which a permit is issued
shall be installed within 30 days of
the issuance of the permit or the
permit is void and no longer effective. No refund of permit fees shall
be given if the permit becomes void.
Section 2. That existing Sections
670B.02 and 670B.03 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 1989-01,
passed October 22, 2001, and existing
Section 670B.05 thereof, as amended
by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

April 7, 2004
Ord. No. 584-04.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Cleveland Church of
Christ Custom Enrichment Program
for
the
Forest
Hills
Parkway
Empowerment Program through the
use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
effective January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004 with the Cleveland
Church of Christ Custom Enrichment Program for the Forest Hills
Parkway Empowerment Program for
the public purpose of providing comprehensive social support programs
for Cleveland residents through the
use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $18,600 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 585-04.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance amending the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 493-04, passed March 22,
2004 as it pertains to the Understanding the Law Program through
the use of Ward 9 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 493-04,
passed March 21, 2004 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Consumer Affairs to enter into an agreement
with the Garrett Square Development Corporation for Understanding
the Law Program through the use
of Ward 9 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of
Consumer Affairs is authorized to
enter into an agreement with the
Garrett Square Development Corporation for the Understanding the
Law Program for the public purpose
of providing legal educational seminars
for
Cleveland
residents
through the use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 493-04,
passed March 21, 2004 are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 586-04.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Glenville Development Corporation for the Glory Girls
Program through the use of Ward 8
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Glenville Development Corporation for the Glory Girls Program for the public purpose of providing after-school educational activities for public school students
residing in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,300 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

601

15
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 587-04.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 2338-02, passed November 25, 2002 as amended by Ordinance No. 256-03, passed February
24, 2003, and as amended by Ordinance No. 345-04, passed March 8,
2004 as it relates to the Community
Parenting Program that is being
funded through Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 233802, passed November 25, 2002, as
amended by Ordinance No. 256-03,
passed February 24, 2003, and as
amended by Ordinance No. 345-04,
passed March 8, 2004 are hereby
amended to read respectively as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Church of Christ Custom Enrichment Program for the
Community
Parenting
Program
through the use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Church of Christ Custom
Enrichment Program effective from
September 1, 2002 to June 30, 2004
for the Community Parenting Program for the public purpose of providing parenting support and education for families residing in the
City of Cleveland through the use
of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $34,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance
No. 2338-02, passed November 25,
2002, as amended by Ordinance No.
256-03, passed February 24, 2003, and
as amended by Ordinance No. 345-04,
passed March 8, 2004 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

16
Ord. No. 588-04.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 5. (Antwon V.
Jenkins).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business district, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
each persons named below to engage
in peddling in the public rights of
way of Ward 5: Antwon V. Jenkins
at the corner of East 30th Street and
Central and Cedar Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 594-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the American Memorial
5K Run & Walk, May 29, 2004 sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the American Memorial 5K Run & Walk, sponsored by
Hermes Sports & Events on May 29,
2004, beginning at the Chop House
on St. Clair Avenue, St. Clair to
West 3rd, West 3rd to Lakeside,
Lakeside to East 9th, East 9th to
Erieside, Erieside to Al Lerner Way,
around Browns Stadium, return to
finish at the Chop House, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall

The City Record
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 595-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the USO Run for the
Troops, June 12, 2004 sponsored by
Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the USO Run for the
Troops, sponsored by Hermes Sports
& Events on June 12, 2004, beginning at the US Naval Reserve, North
Marginal west to East 9th, East 9th
south to Lakeside, Lakeside west to
City Hall, turn around, Lakeside
east to East 9th north to Erieside,
west to Al Lerner Way and West
3rd, around Browns Stadium to Erieside east to finish, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit shall
further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

602

April 7, 2004
Ord. No. 596-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Visiting Nurses Association Healthy Steps 5K Run & 2
Mile Walk, June 19, 2004 sponsored
by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Visiting Nurses
Association Healthy Steps 5K Run &
2 Mile Walk, sponsored by Hermes
Sports & Events on June 19, 2004,
starting at East 22nd at Woodland,
East 22nd to Community College,
Community College to East 24th,
East 24th to Central, Central to East
22nd,
East
22nd
to
Carnegie,
Carnegie to East 9th, East 9th to
Euclid, Euclid to East 21st, East
21st to Carnegie, Carnegie to East
22nd East 22nd to Woodland, finish,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 597-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society Walk, April 18,
2004 sponsored by the Ohio Buckeye
chapter of the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society Walk sponsored by
the Ohio Buckeye chapter of the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society
on April 18, 2004, with the full walk
route beginning at Nautica Enter-

April 7, 2004
tainment Complex in the Flats, follow Washington (north side) to Center Street, turn left onto Center
Street (east side), follow to Merwin
Avenue,
turn
left
onto
Merwin
Avenue (south side), walk past Heritage Park which comes into Old
River Road, remain on west side of
Old River Road until Main Street,
cross from west side to east side of
Old River Road at Main Street,
handicap pick up continue to Front
Street, turn right onto Front Street
(south side), follow Front to West
9th, turn right onto West 9th (west
side), continue to West 9th, turn left
onto W. Lakeside Avenue (south
side), continue to W. Lakeside, turn
left onto West 3rd (east side), rest
stop #1 handicap drop off Huntington Park, west 3rd becomes Erieside
Avenue, (wlk on the inside of the
curve), where Erieside turns east to
pass the Science Museum and the
Rock & Roll Hall of Fame , walk
on the north side, follow Erieside to
East 9th turn right onto East 9th
Street (west side), continue on East
9th until Lakeside, turn right onto
Lakeside Avenue (north side), follow Lakeside Avenue until Ontario,
turn left onto Ontario (east side),
continue on Ontario until Superior,
turn left onto Superior (north side),
continue on Superior until East 12th,
turn right onto East 12th (west
side), follow East 18th until Euclid
Avenue,
turn
left
onto
Euclid
Avenue (south side), rest stop #2 at
the Firstar Plaza, follow Euclid
Avenue (south side) to East 9th,
turn left onto East 9th (west side),
follow East 9th until Carnegie turn
right onto Carnegie (north side),
continue to Carnegie until Ontario
turn right onto Ontario (east side),
follow Ontario to Public Square,
walk on the east side of Ontario
until you reach Euclid Avenue, cross
to the west of Euclid and Ontario
continuing on Ontario, go north to
Superior turning west (north side)
this brings you to the northwest
Quadrant of Public Square, rest stop
#3, follow Superior to West 6th
(north side), turn right onto West
6th (west side), continue on West
6th until Lakeside Avenue, turn left
onto Lakeside Avenue (south side),
continue on Lakeside Avenue walking under the bridge until West 9th,
turn right onto West 9th (north
side), follow West 9th until Front
Street turn left onto Front Street
(north side), follow Front Street
down the hill to Old River Road,
turn south onto Old River Road
(west side), continue walking south
to Merwin Avenue past Heritage
Park (south side), follow Merwin to
Center Street, turn right onto Center
Street (east side), continue to Center Street until Washington, turn
right
onto
Washington
Streete
(north side) and follow straight into
Nautica; the short walk begins at
Nautica Entertainment Complex in
the Flats, follow Washington (north
side) to Center Street, turn left onto
Center Street (east side), follow to
Merwin Avenue turn left onto Merwin Avenue (south side) walk past
Heritage Park which comes into Old
River Road remain on west side of
Old River Road until Main Street,
cross from west side to east side of
Old River Road at Main Street handicap pick up, continue to Front
Street turn right onto Front Street
(south side), follow Front to West
9th, turn right onto West 9th, (west
side), continue to West 9th, turn left

The City Record
onto West Lakeside Avenue (south
side), continue to West Lakeside
turn left onto West 3rd (east side)
rest stop #1 handicap drop off Huntington Park, West 3rd becomes
Erieside Avenue, (walk on the
inside of the curve), where Erieside
turns East to pass the Science Museum and the Rock & Roll Hall of
Fame walk on the north side, follow
Erieside to East 9th turn right onto
East 9th Street (west side), continue on East 9th until Lakeside, turn
right onto Lakeside Avenue (north
side), follow Lakeside Avenue, continue to Lakeside Avenue walking
under the bridge until West 9th,
turn right onto West 9th (north
side), follow West 9th until Front
Street, turn left onto Front Streete
(north side), follow Front Street
down the hill to Old River Road,
turn south onto Old River Road
(west side), continue walking south
to Merwin Avenue past Heritage
Park (south side), follow Merwin to
Center Street, turn right onto Center
Street (east side), continue on Center Street until Washington, turn
right onto Washington Street (north
side), and follow straight to Nautica, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the requirements
of Section 411.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 598-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the March of Dimes
Walk, on May 2, 2004, sponsored by
the March of Dimes.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the March of Dimes
Walk on May 2, 2004, starting at
Jacobs Field, exit onto East 9th
Street, head north on East 9th, staying on west side of street, continue
north on East 9th Street, crossing
Bolivar Road, Prospect Avenue, Euclid Avenue, short Vincent and Superior Avenue, after crossing Superior

603

17
Avenue at East 9th, turn right and
cross East 9th Street and walk east
(on the north side of Superior) to
East 12th Street, cross East 12th
Street (Charter One Check Point),
and turn left (heading north), cross
Rockwell, St. Clair Avenue to Lakeside Avenue, cross Lakeside Avenue
and turn left (heading west), at
Lakeside and East 9th (National
City Bank Check Point), turn right
and stay on east side of East 9th
Street, walk north, crossing Shoreway entrance and exit ramps into
Inner Harbor, follow along brick
walkway of the Inner Harbor under
the Rock-n-Roll Hall of Fame, past
the Great Lakes Science Center to
Cleveland Browns Stadium, Boudreau Boulevard and Erieside Avenue
(Cleveland Browns Check Point),
turn left (south) onto Erieside and
follow past the east side of Cleveland Browns Stadium around to
East 9th Street, turn right on East
9th Street and head south on the
west side of East 9th Street to Lakeside Avenue, cross Lakeside Avenue,
turn right, head west, cross East 6th
to Victory Mall, turn left and proceed through Victory Mall, cross St.
Clair and continue through Victory
Mall to Rockwell, turn right, follow
Rockwell (staying on north side of
street) to Ontario, (Key Bank Check
Point), at Ontario turn left crossing
Rockwell, continue south on Ontario
through
Public
Square,
crossing
Superior Avenue, Euclid Avenue,
Prospect Avenue to Huron Road,
cross Huron Road and on south side
of street turn left (east), continue
on Huron to East 6th Street, turn
right onto East 6th Street and follow back into Gateway Complex;
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 599-04.
By
Council
Members
Jackson,
Britt, Lewis, Pierce Scott, Cimperman, Cintron, Zone, Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit
for
the
27th
RiteAid
Marathon and 10K, April 25, 2004,
sponsored by Cleveland Marathon,
Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

18
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 27th RiteAid
Marathon and 10K sponsored by
Cleveland Marathon, Inc. on April
25, 2004, with the Marathon starting
at St. Clair and East 13th Street, St.
Clair to East 18th Street, East 18th
to Lakeside, Lakeside to East 9th,
East 9th to Erieside, Erieside to Al
Lerner Way, Al Lerner Way to West
3rd, West 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside
to west bound Shoreway, west bound
Shoreway to Edgewater Drive exit,
Edgewater Drive to West 117th,
West 117th to Lake Avenue, Lake
Avenue to Clifton east bound Shoreway entrance, east bound Shoreway
to West 45th exit, West 45th to
Franklin, Franklin to Fulton, Fulton
to
Lorain,
Lorain
to
Carnegie,
Carnegie to East 14th, East 14th to
Euclid, Euclid to East 40th, East
40th to Chester, Chester to Euclid
Avenue, Euclid to East Boulevard,
East Boulevard to MLK, MLK to N.
Marginal, N. Marginal to bike path,
bike path through State park, fishing bridge to East 55th, East 55th
to S. Marginal, S. Marginal to West
3rd on ramp, West 3rd ramp to West
3rd, West 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside
to West 9th, West 9th to Superior,
Superior to West 3rd, West 3rd to
Lakeside, Lakeside to East 18th,
East 18th to St. Clair, St. Clair to
East 12th, finish; 10K starting at St.
Clair & East 13th Street, St. Clair to
East 18th, East 18th to Lakeside,
Lakeside to East 9th, East 9th to
Erieside,
Erieside
to
West
3rd
(around stadium), West 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside to west bound Shoreway on ramp, west bound Shoreway
to West 28th exit ramp, West 28th
to Detroit, Detroit to West 32nd,
West 32nd to Franklin, Franklin to
West 28th, West 28th to east bound
Shoreway on ramp, east bound
Shoreway to Lakeside, Lakeside to
East 18th, East 18th to St. Clair, St.
Clair to East 12th, finish, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may
be closed as determined by the Chief
of Police and safety forces as may
be necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 589-04.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
8329 Superior Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at CJ S Deli, Inc.,
8329 Superior Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
1172796; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at CJ S Deli, Inc.,
8329 Superior Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
1172796 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

604

April 7, 2004
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 590-04.
By Council Members Brady and
Britt.
An emergency resolution commending our troops for their service
to the United States and extending
Council’s sympathy to the families
and loved ones of those who have
lost their lives or have been wounded in the line of duty in Iraq and
Afghanistan.
Whereas, a year has passed since
the onset of the war in Iraq; and
Whereas, over 600 American soldiers have given their lives in the
service of our country in the Iraq
conflict; and
Whereas, over 3000 U.S. service
men and women have been severely
wounded in the conflict in Iraq; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
acknowledge the bravery and sacrifice of our armed services serving
in Iraq and Afghanistan; and
Whereas, this Council hopes and
prays for a speedy conclusion to the
conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan
and for the safe homecoming of our
courageous armed forces; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby commends our troops for their
service to the United States and
extending Council’s sympathy to the
families and loved ones of those
who have lost their lives or have
been wounded in the line of duty in
Iraq and Afghanistan.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 591-04.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
18325 Euclid Avenue, Unit #3.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C2 Liquor Permit at Aldi, Inc., Ohio,
DBA Aldi #4, 18325 Euclid Avenue,
Unit #3, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent Number 01007780335; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has oper-

April 7, 2004
ated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Aldi, Inc., Ohio,
DBA Aldi #4, 18325 Euclid Avenue,
Unit #3, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent
Number
01007780325
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 592-04.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to 15428 Lakeshore Boulevard.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a stock
transfer of ownership of a C1, C2
and D6 Liquor Permit to Park CFM,
Inc., DBA Convenient Food Mart,
15428 Lakeshore Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
6700191; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is

The City Record
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the stock
transfer of ownership of a C1, C2
and D6 Liquor Permit to Park CFM,
Inc., DBA Convenient Food Mart,
15428 Lakeshore Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
6700191; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 593-04.
By Council Member White.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 4025
East 131st Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from Pinkie Cor-

605

19
nell, DBA Speedy’s Restaurant, 4025
East 131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 1746696 to
4025 East 131st, Inc., DBA Lucky’s
Market,
4025
East
131st
Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 2850894; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Pinkie Cornell,
DBA Speedy’s Restaurant, 4025 East
131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 1746696 to 4025
East 131st, Inc., DBA Lucky’s Market, 4025 East 131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
2850894; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

20
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 201-04.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the County of Cuyahoga and the
Ohio Department of Transportation
to paint the structural steel on the
Main Avenue Bridge over the Cuyahoga River; authorizing the Director
of Public Service to enter into any
agreements relative to the improvement; and to apply for and accept
an allocation of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds for the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 5, in division c), line
2, strike “grater” and insert “greater”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 244-04.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of traffic signals, poles, controllers, sign blanks,
traffic paint, beads, hardware, related incidental supplies and materials,
and labor when necessary, for the
Division of Traffic Engineering,
Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, line 3, strike “or
two years”.
2. In Section 1, line 13, strike “The
Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into one or”; and
strike lines 14, 15, 16 and 17 of Section 1 in their entirety.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 327-04.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into amendments to contracts
with various contractors to provide
right-of-way assessment services, including property appraisals, under
existing bridge rehabilitation contracts; and authorizing the Director
of Public Service to employ one or
more professional consultants to review the property appraisals prepared under the amendments.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, line 4, after “June
15, 1992,” insert “and Ordinance No.
2368-01, passed February 11, 2002,”;
and in line 6, strike “$31,758.00” and
insert “$32,000.00”.
2. In Section 2, line 5, strike
“$39,780.00” and insert “$40,000.00”.
3. In Section 3, line 5, strike
“$45,025.02” and insert “$45,000.00”.
4. In Section 5, line 5, strike
“$31,231.00” and insert “$32,000.00”.
5. In Section 8, line 5, strike
“$27,025.00” and insert “$33,000.00”.
6. In Section 9, line 3, strike “February 15” and insert “February 14”;
and in line 5, strike “$17,308.00” and
inset “$18,000.00”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 339-04.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 61st, 63rd and
66th Street to Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Britt, seconded by Council Member White and
unanimously carried that the absence of Council Members Merle R.
Gordon and Edward W. Rybka, be
and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:43 p.m. to meet on Monday, April
19, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

606

April 7, 2004
BOARD OF CONTROL
March 31, 2004
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, March 31, 2004,
at 10:30 a.m. with Acting Mayor
Chandra presiding.
Present: Acting Mayor Chandra,
Directors Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Kathy Velkoff, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 169-04.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 7104, adopted February 25, 2004, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 107702, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on June 17, 2002, authorizing a first amendment to City
Contract No. 61389 between the City
of Cleveland and Mincom, Inc. to
extend the term of the contract to
the earlier of either the exhaustion
of the funds certified to Contract No.
61389 or March 2, 2004, is amended
by changing the second and third
paragraphs to provide that the first
amendment shall extend the term of
Contract No. 61389 to expire upon
exhaustion of the $380,000.00 certified to the contract.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 71-04 not expressly amended
above shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Director
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Acting
Director Brown, Directors Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Ricchiuto and
Fumich.
Resolution No. 170-04.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Badger Meter, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of water meter
parts (Item 1) for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
19th day of December, 2003, pursuant to the authority of Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to One Hundred
Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars and
00/100 Cents ($125,000.00) (Net 30),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:

April 7, 2004
Requisition No. 142863
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Thousand Dollars and 00/100 Cents
($20,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Director
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Acting
Director Brown, Directors Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Ricchiuto and
Fumich.
Resolution No. 171-04.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Hersey Meters Company for an
estimated quantity of water meter
parts (Item 2) for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
19th day of December, 2003, pursuant to the authority of Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Five Thousand
Dollars and 00/100 Cents ($5,000.00)
(2% Net 30), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is hereby requested to enter into
requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 142864
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars and
00/100 Cents ($2,500.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Director
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Acting
Director Brown, Directors Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Ricchiuto and
Fumich.
Resolution No. 172-04.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of AMCO Water Metering
Systems Inc. for an estimated quantity of water meter parts (Item 6)
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period
of two (2) years beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on the 19th day of December, 2003, pursuant to the authority
of Section 129.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to One Hun-

The City Record

21

dred Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars
and 00/100 Cents ($125,000.00), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 142862
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Thousand Dollars and 00/100 Cents
($20,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Director
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Acting
Director Brown, Directors Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Ricchiuto and
Fumich.
Resolution No. 173-04.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on December 19,
2003, for an estimated quantity of
water meter parts (items 3-5) for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, pursuant to the
authority of Section 129.25 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland
Ohio, 1976, are hereby rejected.
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Director
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Acting
Director Brown, Directors Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Ricchiuto and
Fumich.
Resolution No. 174-04.
By Director Mok.
Be it resolved by Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
employment of the following subconsultant by Standard Parking Corporation, under City Contract No.
62471 for services necessary to operate and maintain a shuttle bus system
for
the
transportation
of
patrons and employees of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport (“Airport”) between the Airport’s terminal building and its consolidated
rental car facility, authorized by
Ordinance No. 2029-03, passed on
November 10, 2003, is hereby approved.
Subconsultant

Percentage of
Contract
Amount

Etna Parking,
Inc. (D/MBE)

2.8%

$75,000.00

Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Director
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Acting
Director Brown, Directors Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Ricchiuto and
Fumich.

607

Resolution No. 175-04.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Envirocom Construction
Company,
Inc.,
for
the
public
improvement of Phase 2 of various
district service centers base bid and
deduct alternates a and c for the
Department
of
Public
Service,
received on March 20, 2003, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
2146-03, passed February 9, 2004, for
a gross price for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of Nine Hundred Seventy Seven Thousand Eight
Hundred
and
no/100
Dollars
($977,800.00), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to enter
into contract for said improvement
with said bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Envirocom Construction Company,
Inc., is hereby approved:
A & L Sewer Company
MBE —$78,000 — (7.98%)
Collinwood Concrete
FBE — $32,760 — (3.35%)
MMI
$30,000 — (3.07%)
London Road Electric Company
$135,000 — (13.81%)
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 176-04.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of John M. Lance Ford, LLC.,
for an estimated quantity of Ford
passenger car parts and labor if necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for the period of two
(2) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
February 27, 2004, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1981-03,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on October 27, 2003, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to Seven Hundred
Eighty Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($780,000.00) (2% Net 30 Days), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 130308
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Forty Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($40,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as

22
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 177-04.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Emerald Sage Corporation, d.b.a. Aamco Transmissions for
an estimated quantity of various
vehicle
transmissions
including
installation if necessary, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for the period of two (2) year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on February 27,
2004, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1974-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
October 27, 2003, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to Two Hundred Thirteen
Thousand Four Hundred Fifty Four
and no/100 Dollars ($213,454.00) (2%
10 Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Service is hereby requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 130309
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Eleven Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($11,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 178-04.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. for the public improvement
of
Superior
Avenue
Streetscape between East 17th Street
and the East 30th Street, for the
Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service, received on March 17, 2004, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 867-2000, passed June 19, 2000,
upon a unit basis for the improvement, in the aggregate amount of
One Million, Seven Hundred Seventy
Thousand, Three Hundred TwentyFive, and 10/100 Dollars ($1,770,325.10),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director
of Public Service is authorized to
enter into contract for said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction

The City Record
Company, Inc. for the aforementioned public improvement is approved:
The Vallejo Company, Inc.
(MBE) — $265,550.00 — (15.00%)
Rockport Construction &
Materials, Inc.
(FBE) — $88,525.00 — (5.00%)
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 179-04.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1535-03, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on August 20, 2003, the Director of Community Development is
authorized to enter into contracts
with various individuals and/or families for assistance in the financing
of housing being acquired in the
City of Cleveland in order to improve the economic and general
well-being of the people of the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City has established
a Housing Advisory Board to review
the City’s comprehensive affordable
housing strategy and various housing assistance programs; and
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed and approved
the proposed mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance to the home buyers
program; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1535-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 20, 2003, this Board of Control hereby approves the amount of
the Mortgage Loan to John George
and Cindy George, 12704 Longmead
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, of
Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00).
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 180-04.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1535-03, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on August 20, 2003, the Director of Community Development is
authorized to enter into contracts
with various individuals and/or families for assistance in the financing
of housing being acquired in the
City of Cleveland in order to improve the economic and general
well-being of the people of the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City has established
a Housing Advisory Board to review
the City’s comprehensive affordable
housing strategy and various housing assistance programs; and
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed and approved
the proposed mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance to the home buyers
program; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordi-

608

April 7, 2004
nance No. 1535-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 20, 2003, this Board of Control hereby approves the amount of
the Mortgage Loan to Lenin Guerrero and Robin Hamrick-Guerrero,
12713 Longmead Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44135, of Ten Thousand Dollars
($10,000.00).
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 181-04.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1535-03, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on August 20, 2003, the Director of Community Development is
authorized to enter into contracts
with
various
individuals
and/or
families for assistance in the financing of housing being acquired in the
City
of
Cleveland
in
order
to
improve the economic and general
well-being of the people of the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City has established
a Housing Advisory Board to review
the City’s comprehensive affordable
housing strategy and various housing assistance programs; and
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed and approved
the proposed mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance to the home buyers
program; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1535-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 20, 2003, this Board of Control hereby approves the amount of
the
Mortgage
Loan
to
Mathew
Abens, 12700 Longmead, Cleveland,
Ohio 44135, of Ten Thousand Dollars
($10,000.00).
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 182-04.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1535-03 passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on August 20, 2003, the Director of Community Development is
authorized to enter into contracts
with
various
individuals
and/or
families for assistance in the financing of housing being acquired in the
City
of
Cleveland
in
order
to
improve the economic and general
well-being of the people of the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City has established
a Housing Advisory Board to review
the City’s comprehensive affordable
housing strategy and various housing assistance programs; and.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed and approved
the proposed mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance to the home buyers
program; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1535-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on

April 7, 2004
August 20, 2003, this Board of Control hereby approves the amount of
the Mortgage Loan to James Sabol,
12702 Longmead Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44135, of Ten Thousand Dollars
($10,000.00).
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 183-04.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1535-03, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on August 20, 2003, the Director of Community Development is
authorized to enter into contracts
with
various
individuals
and/or
families for assistance in the financing of housing being acquired in the
City
of
Cleveland
in
order
to
improve the economic and general
well-being of the people of the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City has established
a Housing Advisory Board to review
the City’s comprehensive affordable
housing strategy and various housing assistance programs; and
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed and approved
the proposed mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance to the home buyers
program; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1535-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 20, 2003, this Board of Control hereby approves the amount of
the Mortgage Loan to David M.
Palmer,
12915
Milligan
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, of Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00).
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 184-04.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1535-03, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on August 20, 2003, the Director of Community Development is
authorized to enter into contracts
with
various
individuals
and/or
families for assistance in the financing of housing being acquired in the
City
of
Cleveland
in
order
to
improve the economic and general
well-being of the people of the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City has established
a Housing Advisory Board to review
the City’s comprehensive affordable
housing strategy and various housing assistance programs; and
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed and approved
the proposed mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance to the home buyers
program; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1535-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 20, 2003, this Board of Control hereby approves the amount of
the
Mortgage
Loan
to
Yvette

The City Record
Thompson, 12927 Milligan Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, of Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00).
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 185-04.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the Land
Reutilization Program, the City has
acquired Permanent Parcel No. 11101-009 in Ward 9, and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1709-03,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland
on,
October
20,
2003,
authorized the sale of said parcel
for a consideration established by
the Board of Control at not less than
the Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 661-03,
adopted October 29, 2003, authorized
the Mayor to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Clara Trotter and
Manuel Trotter and fixed the consideration
for
the
parcel
at
$11,000.00; and,
Whereas, the City has determined
to decrease the portion of Permanent Parcel 111-01-009 to be sold to
Clara Trotter and Manuel Trotter to
the Westerly portion of the parcel;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 661-03, adopted by
this Board of Control on October 29,
2003, authorizing the Mayor to execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
Clara Trotter and Manuel Trotter is
amended by adding after “Permanent Parcel No. 111-01-009”, (Westerly portion) and reducing the consideration for said parcel from
$11,000.00 to $7,400.00, which amount
is hereby determined to be not less
than the Fair Market Value of said
parcel for uses in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 661-03 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 186-04.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 121-18-129 (Parcel 2) located at
East 100th Street in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and

609

23
Whereas, Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
121-18-129
(Parcel 2) located at East 100th
Street, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00,
which
amount
is
hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Acting
Mayor
Chandra,
Directors, Chandra, Baker, Konicek,
Acting Director McGraw, Directors
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Director
Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek,
Acting Director Brown, Directors
Sims, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Fumich.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

The City Record

24
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 2004
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 04-64: 5000 Pearl Road
(Ward 16)
Myron Kaplan, owner, appeals to
construct a one-story 50' x 160'
accessory storage building on an
irregular shaped acreage parcel
located in split zoning between a
Semi-Industry District and a General Industry District on the west
side of Pearl Road at 5000 Pearl
Road; subject to the provisions in
Section 359.01 for Nonconforming
Uses, the expansion of a vehicle
wrecking yard and uses is not permitted in a Semi-Industry District
but first permitted in a General
Industry District and requires the
Board of Zoning Appeals approval
for an expansion of nonconforming
use,
and
contrary
to
Section
347.06(a) in Specific Uses Regulated, a 6' high fence with slats is
proposed and a wrecking yard shall
have a minimum 7' high solid
masonry wall or slightly solid nontransparent, well-maintained, substantial fence; and there is no landscaping strip proposed where a 10'
wide landscaping strip with 75%
year-round
opacity
is
required
between the General Industry use
and the abutting Two-Family District as stated in Section 352.11 of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 04-65: 14129 Puritas
Avenue (Ward 20)
Coral Puritas Partnership, owner,
appeals to construct a 110' x 70'
one-story retail building on a 110' x
150' parcel in a General Retail Business District on the south side of
Puritas Avenue at 14129 Puritas
Avenue; contrary to Section 343.18 of
the Business Districts Regulations,
a proposed driveway apron on the
northwest corner is 2' from the
property line and at the southeast
corner is 12' from the property line,
and a distance of 15' from the property line is required; and contrary to
Section 352.10 of the Requirements
for Landscaping and Screening, a 4'
wide landscaping strip is proposed
where a 6' width is required along
Puritas Avenue between the street
and the parking lot, and there is no
transition strip proposed along the
west side of the lot between the
General Retail District and the TwoFamily District, where a 10' wide
transition strip is required as stated
in Section 352.11 of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 04-66: 3140 West 98th
Street (Ward 18)
Gerald Zahler, d.b.a. Mutual Properties, owner, appeals to construct a
5,119 s/f addition to the north side
of an existing one-story retail building, situated on an acreage parcel
in a General Retail Business District on the northwest corner of
West 98th Street and Lorain Avenue;
contrary to the Yards and Courts
Regulations, the proposed addition
is within the front setback and no
portion of a building shall be erected within the specific 10' front setback as stated in Section 357.07(a)
of the Codified Ordinances.

April 7, 2004

Calendar No. 04-57: 4856 Lee Road
(Ward 1)
Lee Heights Community Church
c/o Reverend Vern Miller, owner,
appeals to maintain a 12' x 60' construction trailer on an approximate
169' x 250' irregular shaped vacant
lot for the use of food storage and
distribution, situated in a One-Family District on the west side of Lee
Road at 4856-4878 Lee Road; contrary to Section 337.02(f)(3)(G) of
the Residential District Regulations
the proposed use by a charitable
institution must be approved by the
Board of Zoning Appeals and located not less than a distance of 30'
from other premises not used for a
similar purpose and contrary to the
Off-Street
Parking
and
Loading
Requirements, a gravel lot is proposed where vehicle maneuvering
areas and parking spaces must be
paved
and
properly
graded
for
drainage, so that all water is
drained within the lot as stated in
Section 349.07(a) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-252: 4856 Lee Road
(Ward 1)
Lee Heights Community Church,
owner, and Reverend Vern Miller
appeal to install approximately 592
linear feet of 4' high chain link
fencing at the front and at the north
and south sides of an approximate
169' x 250' irregular shaped parcel
located in a One Family District on
the west side of Lee Road and Highview Avenue at 4856 Lee Road; said
installation of chain link fencing
being contrary to the Fence Regulations, where in a residential district only ornamental fence is permitted in the actual front and actual side street yards as stated in Section 358.04(c)(1) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2004
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 5,
2004, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 04-60: 3885 Rocky River
Drive
Westside Medical Center, LLC,
owner,
and
Fifth
Third
Bank,
prospective purchaser, appealed to
erect a 4,116 s/f one-story bank
building with drive through lanes
and an accessory parking lot in a
Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 04-42: 1406-20 East 49th
Street
Ohio Diesel Tehnical Institute appealed to erect 150 l/f of 6' high
chain link fence and a 14' gate
along the front of a 150' x 141'
vacant parcel in a Multi-Family District.
The
nied:

following

appeal

was

Calendar No. 04-56: 5016 Duke Avenue
Alex Gordon appealed from being
denied an Application for a Street
Opening Permit by the Director of
Public Service on March 3, 2004 to
allow removal of pavement and create a curb cut.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 04-55: 10721-23 St. Clair
Avenue postponed to April 26,
2004.
Calendar No. 04-58: 3507 Carnegie
Avenue postponed to April 26,
2004.
The following
missed:

appeal

Dis-

Calendar No. 04-32: 3200-04 West
32nd Street
International Church of the Four
Square Gospel appealed to construct
a parking lot for twelve parking
spaces on a corner lot in a TwoFamily District.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 04-33: 4277 West 150th
Street
Boykin Cleveland LLC appealed to
erect a 16' x 40' freeway interchange sign in the existing northeast parking lot area of the Cleveland Airport Marriott Hotel in a
General Retail Business District and
a One-Family District.
On Monday, April 5, 2004, in Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on Monday, March 29,
2004, and said decisions were approved and adopted in Executive
Session on Monday, April 5, 2004:
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 04-53: 18501 Neff Road
Tops Markets, LLC, appealed to
erect a service station on the parking area of a supermarket site in a
Local Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 04-50: 11604 Governor
Avenue
George M. Greenawalt appealed to
erect an 18' high, 26.8' x 25.4'
garage addition to the east side of
a one family dwelling in a Local
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 04-51: Appeal of Aziz
Anod — Hack License Suspension
Aziz Anod appealed from the suspension of a City of Cleveland Hack
License issued by the Commissioner
of Assessments and Licenses.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

DeNO MEETING

610

was

The City Record

April 7, 2004
PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, April 21, 2004
1:30 P.M.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the Council Committee on City Planning will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217,
City
Hall,
Cleveland,
Ohio,
on
Wednesday, April 21, 2004, at 1:30
P.M., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 215-A-04. (As a substitute
for Ord. No. 215-04).
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the zoning of parcels along W. 79th Street
between Ferrell Avenue and Madison Avenue from a General Industry
Use District to a Multi-Family Residential Use District and a Parking
District and from a “B” Area to an
“E” Area (Map Change No. 2112,
Sheet No. 1).
Ord. No. 544-04.
By Council Member Lewis.
An ordinance to change the zoning
of parcels along Hough Avenue
between East 65th Street and East
71st Street from Local Retail Business Use Districts to Single Family
Residential Use Districts and a
Multi-Family Residential Use District; from “B,” “C,” and “D” Area Districts to “A” Area Districts and from
“2” Height Districts to “1” Height Districts (Map Change No. 2121, Sheet
No. 5).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN,
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
_____
April 7, 2004 and April 14, 2004

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10
Negotiated
contracts;
Notice required in Advertisement
for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 2004
2004 Summer Food Program (Breakfasts, Lunches & Snacks), for the
Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2043-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 1, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
APRIL 8, 2004 AT 11:30 A.M., DIVISION
OF
RECREATION,
601
LAKESIDE AVENUE, ROOM #8,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Food, Food Products, Beverages,
Condiments and Paper Products at
Camp Forbes, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 204303, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 1,
2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2004 AT
12:30 P.M., DIVISION OF RECREATION, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
ROOM #8, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
March 31, 2004 and April 7, 2004
THURSDAY, APRIL 22, 2004

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office

Meters and Metering Equipment, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1630-92, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, September 21, 1992.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
APRIL 15, 2004 AT 10:00 A.M.,
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

611

25
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
Harvard Yards Facility Improvements Building #4 Renovation, for
the
Division
of
Architecture,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 83302, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 3, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, APRIL 13, 2004 AT 2:00
P.M., HARVARD YARDS FACILITY, 4150 EAST 49TH STREET,
CUYAHOGA
HEIGHTS,
OHIO
44105.
March 31, 2004 and April 7, 2004
FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 2004
Building Materials and Used Paved
Bricks, for various divisions of
the Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance Nos. 88703 and 466-04, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland, June
2, 2003 and pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2004 AT
2:30 P.M., CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
ROOM
#514,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
March 31, 2004 and April 7, 2004
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2004
Pool Chemicals, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation, and Properties, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 33004, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2004 AT
12:00 P.M., DIVISION OF RECREATION, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
ROOM
8,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
April 7, 2004 and April 14, 2004
FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 2004
Steel Receptables Lids with Flexible
Steel Cable Attachment, for the
Division
of
Waste
Collection,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 125703, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 2004 AT 3:00
P.M., DIVISION OF WASTE COLLECTION,
5600
CARNEGIE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44103.
Electrical Motors & Pumps, Including Attachments, Parts, and Materials Necessary to Repair Electric
Motors & Pumps, for the Division
of Property Management, Department of Parks, Recreation, and

The City Record

26
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1889-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
October 27, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2004 AT
10:00 A.M., DIVISION OF PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, 4150 EAST
49th
STREET,
BUILDING
#2,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
April 7, 2004 and April 14, 2004
WEDNESDAY, MAY 5, 2004
Nottingham Water Works Plant Flocculation/Sedimentation/Residuals,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 323-04 pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00)
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2004, AT
1:00 P.M., CARL B. STOKES,
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
AUDITORIUM — 1ST FLOOR, 1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 7, 2004 and April 14, 2004

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 548-04.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Sweeney.
An emergency resolution supporting the reauthorization of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st
Century (TEA-21) by the U.S. Congress and urging Congress to fund
the reauthorization bill at no less
than $318 billion.
Whereas, the U.S. Congress has
not completed its work to reauthorize federal transportation programs
and policies necessary to improve
our nation’s mobility; and
Whereas,
reauthorizing
federal
transportation programs is essential
to improve our nation’s economy
because transportation infrastructure is the system through which
consumers and commerce flow in
and through our nation’s cities and
regions; and
Whereas,
reauthorizing
federal
transportation programs will save
and create jobs; and
Whereas,
the
longer
Congress
debates TEA-21, the greater the risk
that transportation projects and programs
currently
underway
will
either slow down or stop, jeopardizing existing jobs and the creation of
new ones; and
Whereas,
reauthorizing
federal
transportation programs pay for
themselves because federal gas tax
revenues collected at the pump help
pay the bill; and

Whereas,
reauthorizing
federal
transportation programs will help
reduce roadway congestion that pollutes our environment and steals
peoples’ time from more productive
activities at home, work, and play;
and
Whereas,
reauthorizing
federal
transportation programs is an investment in homeland security because our nation’s transportation
systems help move people out of
harm’s way and transport emergency personnel where needed; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland, as
well as cities and towns across our
nation desire a six-year rather than
a two-year bill because transportation projects require long-term planning and funding stability that, in
turn, helps ensure cost effective projects; and
Whereas, Congress must build on
the legacy of the Transportation
Equity Act for the 21st Century
(“TEA-21”), and improve the longterm funding and program flexibility of federal transportation programs and policies at the state and
local levels; and
Whereas, the reauthorizing federal transportation programs are essential to improving and maintaining Cleveland’s local transportation
infrastructure which is vital to consumers and commerce flowing in
and about the Northeast Ohio region;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports the reauthorization of
the Transportation Equity Act for
the 21st Century (TEA-21) by the
U.S. Congress and urges Congress to
fund the reauthorization bill at no
less than $318 billion.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to the members of the Ohio U.S. House of Representatives House Transportation
& Infrastructure Committee: Steven
C. LaTourette and Robert W. Ney
and U.S. Representatives Stephanie
Tubb-Jones, Dennis Kucinich and
Sherrod Brown.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Res. No. 549-04.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 13501
Lakewood Heights Boulevard.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor

612

April 7, 2004
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Stop N Save,
Inc., DBA Mimi Mini Market, 1st
Floor N/S only, 13501 Lakewood
Heights Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44111, Abedel Dayem, Permanent
Number 86165290005 to Hajnaj, Inc.,
DBA Stop N Stop, 1st Floor N/S only,
13501 Lakewood Heights Boulevard,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 3505178; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Stop N Save,
Inc., DBA Mimi Mini Market, 1st
Floor N/S only, 13501 Lakewood
Heights Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44111, Abedel Dayem, Permanent
Number 86165290005 to Hajnaj, Inc.,
DBA Stop N Stop, 1st Floor N/S only,
13501 Lakewood Heights Boulevard,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 3505178; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

April 7, 2004
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Res. No. 550-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 2255 Hamilton Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1626-02,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to 2255 Hamilton Avenue by
Resolution No. 1626-02 adopted by
the Council on August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
2255
Hamilton
Corporation,
2255
Hamilton Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 9115381 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1626-02, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Res. No. 551-04.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
15222 Waterloo Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C2 Liquor Permit at Tap Investments, LLC, 15222 Waterloo Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 87987000125; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or

The City Record
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Tap Investments,
LLC, 15222 Waterloo Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
87987000125 and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Res. No. 552-04.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 12408 Union Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1901-03,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 12408 Union
Avenue by Resolution No. 1901-03
adopted by the Council on September 29, 2003; and

613

27
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to Ashlex, Inc.,
DBA Union Deli, 12408 Union Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 0296801 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1901-03, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Res. No. 553-04.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 990103 Union Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 1688-02, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 990103 Union Avenue by Resolution No.
1688-02 adopted by the Council on
August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Fadis
Market, Inc., 9901-03 Union Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 2599989 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1688-02, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

28
Ord. No. 1062-2000.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 2243 East 73rd Street
to Wilbert J. Abernathy, Jr.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-24-101,
as more fully described in Section 2
below, to Wilbert J. Abernathy, Jr.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-24-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
23 in H.C. Sterling’s Subdivision of
part of the Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 336, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page 60 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being 40 feet front on the Easterly side of East 73rd Street (formerly Benton Avenue), and extending
back 143 feet 3 inches on the Southerly line, 113 feet 3-1/8 inches on the
Northerly line, and having a rear line
of 40 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of Cleve-

The City Record
land. The deed shall contain such
provisions as may be necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest
including
such
restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests
as may be specified by the Board of
Control, the Director of Community
Development or the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 775-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 7717 Sagamore Avenue to Barry and Sarita A. King.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-09-003
(Southeasterly part of) and 118-09112, as more fully described below,
to Barry and Sarita A. King.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-09-003
(Southeasterly part of)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot Nos. 21, 22 and 23 and part of
Parcel A in the G.M. Spangler’s Subdivision of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot Nos. 339 and 342, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 24,
Page 22 and bounded and described
as follows:
Commencing at a 1" iron pin found
in a monument box found at the intersection of East 79th Street (50 feet
wide) and Sagamore Avenue (40 feet
wide) on the right of way of East
79th Street (50 feet wide);
Thence North 80° 27' 43" West, a
distance of 154.85 feet to a point in
the centerline of Sagamore Avenue
(40 feet wide);
Thence North 09° 47' 52" East, 20
feet to a drill hole set on the North
right-of-way of Sagamore Avenue

614

April 7, 2004
(40 feet wide). Thence continuing
on 66.74 feet the Southeast corner of
Block A this being the principle
place of beginning;
Thence North 80° 24' 43" West, a
distance of 76.67 feet to the Northwest corner of Sublot No. 22;
Thence North 09° 47' 52" East, a
distance of 43.74 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin set;
Thence South 80° 47' 06" East, a
distance of 76.76 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin set on the West line of parcel A;
Thence South 09° 47' 52" West, a
distance of 43.74 feet to the principal place of beginning;
Containing 3353.5457 square feet
of 0.0770 acres and coinciding with
the survey performed by Bemba K.
Jones, P.S. and Associates, Inc. State
of Ohio Professional Surveyor, Registration number 7343. Date of Survey, the 11th day of June 2003.
P. P. No. 118-09-112
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
22 in George M. Spangler’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 339 and 342, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 24 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 3334/100 feet front on the Northerly
side
of
Sagamore
Street
(now
known as Sagamore Avenue, N.E.)
66-55/100 feet deep on the Easterly
line, 66-37/100 feet deep on the Westerly line and 33-34/100 feet in the
rear, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

April 7, 2004
Ord. No. 778-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 5704 Utica Avenue to
Ella J. Redeemen.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 104-20-071,
as more fully described below, to
Ella J. Redeemen.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-071
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Utica Avenue, N.E., (formerly Willson
Place) at a point 334 feet Easterly
measured along said Southerly line,
from its intersection with the Easterly line of East 55th Street (formerly Willson Avenue); thence Easterly
along the Southerly line of Utica
Avenue, N.E., 33 feet; thence Southerly parallel with the Easterly line of
East 55th Street, 60 feet; thence
Westerly parallel with the Southerly
line of Utica Avenue, N.E., 33 feet;
thence Northerly parallel with the
Easterly line of East 55th Street, 60
feet to the place of beginning.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Direc-

The City Record
tor of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 2156-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Outhwaite Avenue to
Maurie L. Nunn.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 124-03-049
and
124-03-050,
as
more
fully
described below, to Maurie L. Nunn.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-03-049
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
No. 10 in Samuel Foljambe’s Re-Subdivision of part of Bomford’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 331 and 332, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Re-Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
19
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records.
Said Sublot No. 10 has a
frontage of 35 feet on the Northerly
side of Outhwaite Avenue, S.E. and
extends back of equal width 127
feet, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 124-03-050
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
11 in Samuel Foljambe’s Subdivision

615

29
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 331 and 332, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 35 feet front on
the Northerly side of Outhwaite Avenue, S.E. and extending back between parallel lines 127 feet along
the Easterly line of East 56th Street,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 2246-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on La Grange Avenue to
Rose Stewart.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record

30
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-09-085,
as more fully described below, to
Rose Stewart.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-09-085
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 5 feet 10 inches of Sublot No.
18 and the Easterly 29 feet 2 inches
of Sublot No. 19 in Walworth and
Porter’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 399,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 35
feet front on the Northerly side of
LaGrange Avenue (formerly LaGrange Street), and extending back

of equal width 133.48 feet, as appears by said plat, be the same more
or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.

April 7, 2004
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 115-04.
By Council Member Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2004.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2004, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Four Hundred Sixty Seven Million One Hundred Forty Four Thousand Six Hundred Forty Six Dollars ($467,144,646) from the General Fund;
The sum of Fifty Seven Million Forty Three Thousand Nine Hundred Seventy Two Dollars ($57,043,972) from
the Special Revenue Funds;
The sum of Twenty Two Million Five Hundred Fifty Seven Thousand Five Hundred Thirty Six Dollars
($22,557,536) from the Internal Service Funds;
The sum of Five Hundred Ninety Two Million Four Hundred Eighty Three Thousand Five Hundred Sixty Five
Dollars ($592,483,565) from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Eight Million Eight Hundred Seventy Seven Thousand Eight Hundred Five Dollars ($8,877,805) from
the Trust and Agency Funds;
The sum of Fifty Four Million Four Hundred Nine Thousand Twenty Three Dollars ($54,409,023) from the Debt
Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor’s Estimate on file with Council and identified as File No. 115-04-A in the aggregate
amount for each department as follows:
APPROPRIATION FOR THE YEAR 2004
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Municipal Court
Executive Branch
Office of the Mayor
Department of Public Safety
Community Relations Board
Department of Consumer Affairs
Department of Public Service
Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties
Urban Planning & Development
Department of Public Health
Department of Aging
Support Functions
Transfers to Other Funds
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$
$

5,579,211
32,235,349

2,207,783
268,224,122
913,344
315,424
34,338,359
35,269,173
16,837,878
11,785,690
423,592
37,330,563
21,684,158
———————
$ 429,330,086
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$ 467,144,646
———————
———————

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Trust and Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds

$

57,043,972
22,557,536
592,483,565
8,877,805
54,409,023
———————
$1,202,516,547
———————
———————

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2004

616

The City Record

April 7, 2004

31

GENERAL GOVERNMENT
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$5,579,211
$4,300,309
1,278,902
——————
$5,579,211
——————
——————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

MUNICIPAL COURT
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$17,289,419
2,305,275

$19,594,694

Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,651,084
134,312

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$7,928,385
1,926,874

$2,785,396

$9,855,259

——————
$32,235,349
——————
——————

TOTAL MUNICIPAL COURT

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,207,783
$1,958,137
249,646
——————
$2,207,783
——————
——————

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,577,240
346,208

$2,923,448

Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$157,657,362
10,493,804

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$73,371,570
2,758,073

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$18,578,701
1,583,123

Division of Dog Pound
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$729,953
128,088

$168,151,166

$76,129,643

$20,161,824

$858,041

——————
$268,224,122
——————
——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD
Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

TOTAL COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD

617

$913,344
$814,415
98,929
——————
$913,344
——————
——————

The City Record

32

April 7, 2004

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
Consumer Affairs
I.
II.

$315,424

Personnel and Related Expenses

$230,289

Other Expenses

85,135
——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

$315,424
——————
——————

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
Public Service Administration
I.
II.

$517,582

Personnel and Related Expenses

$503,903

Other Expenses

13,679

Division of Architecture
I.
II.

$680,858

Personnel and Related Expenses

$654,268

Other Expenses

26,590

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$24,769,957
$14,716,028

Other Expenses

10,053,929

Division of Engineering and Construction
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$4,828,989
$4,532,341
296,648

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
II.

$3,540,973

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$2,585,676
955,297
——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

$34,338,359
——————
——————

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Parks, Recreation, and Properties Administration
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$721,314
$566,607
154,707

Division of Research, Planning, and Development
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$721,830
$668,125
53,705

Division of Recreation
I.
II.

$11,575,795

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$8,435,024
3,140,771

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
I.
II.

$1,118,106

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$1,085,597
32,509

Division of Property Management
I.
II.

$8,138,755

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$6,010,740
2,128,015

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$12,993,373
$8,746,910
4,246,463
——————

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES

618

$35,269,173
——————
——————

The City Record

April 7, 2004

33

URBAN PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Division of Administrative Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$697,383
105,000

$802,383

Director’s Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$239,647

Division of Neighborhood Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$662,226
200,000

Division of Neighborhood Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$420,783

$239,647

$862,226

$420,783

——————
$2,325,039
——————
——————

TOTAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir. Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,700,669
397,496

$2,098,165

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$6,482,018
232,477

Division of Construction Permit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,597,730
21,700

$6,714,495

$1,619,430

——————
$10,432,090
——————
——————

TOTAL BUILDING AND HOUSING

REGULATORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$162,531
7,074

$169,605

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$93,265
12,838

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$270,168
14,702

$106,103

$284,870

——————
$560,578
——————
——————

Total Regulatory Boards

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,127,280
$1,069,634
57,646
——————
$1,127,280

Total Department of Economic Development

——————
——————
Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$865,829
35,133

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,429,996
61,933

TOTAL URBAN PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

619

$900,962

$1,491,929

——————
$16,837,878
——————
——————

34

The City Record

April 7, 2004

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$632,544
100,597

$733,141

Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$4,912,728
1,343,812

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$2,431,284
810,454

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$902,151
222,589

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$106,643
322,888

$6,256,540

$3,241,738

$1,124,740

$429,531

——————
$11,785,690
——————
——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
DEPARTMENT OF AGING
DEPARTMENT OF AGING
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$423,592
$354,734
68,858
——————
$423,592
——————
——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

SUPPORT FUNCTIONS
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$653,380
51,702

$705,082

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$983,075
411,771

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,258,247
172,162

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$444,773
65,795

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$508,401
98,442

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$395,852
257,065

$1,394,846

$1,430,409

$510,568

$606,843

$652,917

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,106,316
217,527

$1,323,843

Information Technology and Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,999,756
851,257

Information Tech & Planning
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$221,490
250

$2,851,013

$221,740

——————
$9,697,261
——————
——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

620

The City Record

April 7, 2004

35

Office of Budget & Management-Budget Admin.
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Department Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$586,329
$574,450
11,879
$7,684,436
$6,099,651
1,584,785
——————
$17,968,026
——————
——————

TOTAL FINANCE AND LEGAL ADMINISTRATION

PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
Office of Personnel
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$1,273,147
257,465

$1,530,612

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$585,423
172,517

$757,940

——————
$2,288,552
——————
——————

TOTAL PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.
Other Expenses

$1,043,000

$1,043,000

Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses

$16,030,985

$16,030,985

——————
$17,073,985
——————
——————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL

TOTAL SUPPORT FUNCTIONS

$37,330,563
——————
——————

Transfers To Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

$21,684,158
$21,684,158
——————
$467,144,646
——————
——————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND
Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
Capital
II.
Debt Service

$12,760,472
20,000,000

$32,760,472

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$15,151,580
7,131,920

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$22,283,500

$2,000,000
$2,000,000
——————
$57,043,972
——————
——————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Information Technology and Services-Telephone Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$1,015,791
II.
Other Expenses
4,822,319

621

$5,838,110

The City Record

36

April 7, 2004

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.
II.

$14,179,193

Personnel and Related Expenses

$6,116,817

Other Expenses

8,062,376

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.
II.

$1,609,360

Personnel and Related Expenses

$757,753

Other Expenses

851,607

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
II.

$930,873

Personnel and Related Expenses

$83,845

Other Expenses

847,028
——————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

$22,557,536
——————
——————

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
II.

$1,663,996

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$1,179,560
484,436

Radio

$2,359,923
I.

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$153,892
2,206,031

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
II.

$2,936,558

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$2,668,868
267,690

Division of Water
I.
II.

$241,542,714

Personnel and Related Expenses

$80,137,459

Other Expenses

161,405,255

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
II.

$24,686,971

Personnel and Related Expenses

$9,148,262

Other Expenses

15,538,709

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
II.

$149,799,768

Personnel and Related Expenses

$27,357,201

Other Expenses

122,442,567
——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

$422,989,930
——————
——————

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Airports - Operations
I.
II.

$138,464,634

Personnel and Related Expenses

$23,407,956

Other Expenses

115,056,678
——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

$138,464,634
——————
——————

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Division of Cemeteries
I.
II.

$1,969,710

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$1,597,757
371,953

Golf Course Fund
I.
II.

$2,398,416

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$1,306,513
1,091,903

622

The City Record

April 7, 2004

37

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$8,578,487
$1,271,999

Other Expenses

7,306,488

Division of Convention Center
I.
II.

$6,400,000

Personnel and Related Expenses

$3,497,704

Other Expenses

2,902,296

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-West Side Market
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

652,416

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Stadium
II.

Other Expenses

$10,500,000
$10,500,000

Division of Property Management - East Side Market
I.
II.

1,104,611

$452,195

Personnel and Related Expenses

$77,777
$54,676

Other Expenses

23,101
——————

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, & PROPERTIES

$31,029,001
——————
——————

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$592,483,565
——————
——————

——————

AGENCY FUND
Central Collection Agency
I.
II.

$8,877,805

Personnel and Related Expenses

$5,954,460

Other Expenses

2,923,345
——————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

$8,877,805
——————
——————
DEBT SERVICE FUND

Sinking Fund Commission
I.
II.
III.

$54,409,023

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$150,573
403,824

Debt Service

53,854,626
——————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

$54,409,023
——————
——————

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the Mayor’s
Estimate File No. 115-04-A, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for I. - Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. - Other Expenses and are not severally and individually
appropriated in said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 2003 is
hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 2004 or prior years.
The Mayor’s Estimate File No. 115-04-A as modified by the schedule published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter shall within the sums appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure budget for the year 2004
and shall be subject to the control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer from I. - Personnel and
Related Expenses, or II. - Other Expenses within any department or office, or from one department or office to
another shall be made except as provided in Section 41 of the Charter.
Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is hereby authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury
for the amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of
the department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective March 30, 2004.

623

38
Ord. No. 164-04.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Cardinal Road to
Beulah Baptist Church.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 115-08-078,
as more fully described below, to
Beulah Baptist Church.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-08-078
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
104 in W.F. Walworth’s Subdivision
of a part of Original Euclid Township Tract No. 16 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records
and being 40 feet front on the
Southerly side of Cardinal Avenue,
N.E., and extending back of equal
width 140 feet deep, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of

The City Record
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 168-04.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1854 West 50th Street
to Ohio City Near West Development
Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 002-35-033,
as more fully described below, to
Ohio City Near West Development
Corporation or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-35-033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly half of Sublot No. 324 in
Benedict and Root’s Allotment of
part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 48 and 49, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Allotment in Volume 1 of Maps, Page 13
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
forming a parcel of land having a
frontage of 30 feet, on the Westerly side of West 50th Street, 60 feet
wide (formerly known as Birch
Street), and extending back of
equal width, 132.00 feet deep, as

624

April 7, 2004
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to: Easement recited in
Volume 5245, Page 659 of Cuyahoga
County Records, filed April 16, 1940.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 251-04.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply and accept a
grant from the State of Ohio Department of Development to conduct the
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program and to enter into one
or more contracts with various organizations, individual landlords, tenants and contractors for the purpose
of providing weatherization assistance to low-income City residents
through the State Home Weatherization Assistance Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to apply for and accept a

April 7, 2004
grant in the approximate amount of
$2,753,605.00 from the State of Ohio
Department of Development, to conduct the State Home Weatherization
Assistance Program and to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for the
grant.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with individual landlords, tenants, contractors and various nonprofit organizations for the provision of weatherization assistance to
low-income City residents through
the State Home Weatherization Assistance Program.
Section 3. That the cost of the contracts shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the total amount of the grant
accepted in Section 1, and shall be
paid from the fund or funds that are
credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 253-04.
By Council Members Britt, Rybka,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to employ one or
more professional consultants to
study
transportation
and
design
issues on Fleet Avenue; and authorizing an agreement with the Shaker Square Area Development Corporation to cooperate in the cost of
this project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
study transportation and design issues on Fleet Avenue.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of the City
Planning Commission from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass
by the Director of the City Plan-

The City Record
ning Commission for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director
of Law, approved by the Director
of the City Planning Commission,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Shaker Square Area Development Corporation to cooperate in
the cost by contributing up to
$10,000 to the City of Cleveland for
this project, and those funds are
appropriated for this purpose.
Section 3. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 412,
20 SF 456, and from the fund or
funds which are credited the money
received from the Shaker Square
Area Development Corporation for
this purpose, Request No. 112332.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 334-04.
By
Council
Members
Cintron,
Johnson, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to purchase property for the expansion of Roberto
Clemente Park for the Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties has requested the purchase of property
necessary for the expansion of
Roberto Clemente Park; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following described
property for the expansion of Roberto Clemente Park:
P. P. No. 007-18-063
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 44 feet of Sublot Nos. 489,
490 and 491 in Hiram Stone’s Addition of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot Nos. 53 and 68, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps, Page 41 of Cuyahoga County Records and together

625

39
forming a parcel of land 44 feet
front on the Easterly side of West
38th
Street
(formerly
Clifford
Street) and extending back of
equal width along the Southerly
side of Wade Avenue S.W. 150 feet,
as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
2839 West 38th Street
P. P. No. 007-18-060
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
460 in Hiram Stone’s Addition Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot Nos. 53 and 68 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps, Page 41 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 50 feet
front on the Northerly side of Seymour Avenue, and extending back of
equal width 132 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
3746-48-50 Seymour Avenue
P. P. No. 007-18-061 and 007-18-068
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 44 feet of Sublot Nos. 489,
490 and 491 in Hiram Stone’s Addition of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot Nos. 53 and 68, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps, Page 41 of Cuyahoga
County Records and together forming a parcel of land 44 feet front on
the Easterly side of West 38th Street
(formerly Pollock Street) and extending back of equal width 150 feet
deep, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
2857 West 38th Street
P. P. No. 007-18-062
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 44 feet of the Southerly 88
feet of Sublot Nos. 489, 490 and 491
in Hiram Stone’s Allotment of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
Nos. 53 and 68 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps,
Page
42
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records together forming a parcel
of land 44.00 feet front on the Easterly side of West 38th Street and
extending back of equal width
150.00 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
2849 West 38th Street
P. P. No. 007-18-057
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
462 in H. Stone’s Addition being a
Subdivision of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 53 and
68 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 1 of Maps, Page 41 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 50
feet front on the Northerly side of
Seymour Avenue, S.W. and extending back of equal width 132 feet to
the Southerly line of a 14 foot alley,

40
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
3726 Seymour Avenue
P. P. No. 007-18-058
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the East
half of Sublot No. 461 in Hiram
Stone’s Addition to Cleveland of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
Nos. 53 and 68, and being 25 feet front
on Seymour Avenue and extending
back of uniform width 132 feet to an
alley, as per plat of said Allotment
recorded in Volume 1 of Maps, Pages
41 and 42 of Cuyahoga County
Records, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
3736 Seymour Avenue
P. P. No. 007-18-059
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly one-half of Sublot No. 461 in H.
Stone’s Addition, being a Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot Nos. 53 and 68, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps, Page 41 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 25 feet
front on the Northerly side of Seymour Avenue, S.W. and extending
back of equal width 132 feet to a 14
foot alley, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
3740 Seymour Avenue
P. P. No. 007-18-056
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
463 in Hiram Stone’s Addition of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot Nos. 53 and 68, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps,
Page
41
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the Northerly side of Seymour Avenue, and extending back of equal
width 132 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
3718 Seymour Avenue
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to execute on behalf of
the City of Cleveland all necessary
documents to acquire the property
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers,
environmental
audits,
and all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for this property shall not
exceed fair market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 377 and 20 SF 392.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 335-04.
By Council Members Jackson, Gordon, Sweeney, Coats and Cimperman
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
improvements which are associated
with the Phase III redevelopment of
Arbor Park Village; authorizing the
Directors of Community Development, Public Service, or Public Utilities, as applicable, to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing an agreement with New Longwood Associates L.P. and/or Arbor Park Phase
Three Associates, L.P. to cooperate
in the cost of this project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of making various
infrastructure
improvements
which are associated with the Phase
III redevelopment of Arbor Park Village, including but not limited to
the construction of new streets,
water and sewer lines, street lighting, and related earthwork, for
Departments of Community Development, Public Service, and Public
Utilities, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Community Development, Public Service, or Public Utilities, as applicable, are authorized to enter into one
or more contracts for the making of
the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each,
or any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with New Longwood Associates, L.P.
and/or Arbor Park Phase Three
Associates, L.P. to cooperate in the
cost by contributing approximately
$45,000 to the City of Cleveland
which will cover the cost of water
meter vaults, and those funds are
appropriated for this purpose.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 54
SF 001, 58 SF 001, 20 SF 379, 20 SF
393, 20 SF 394, and from the fund or
funds which are credited the money

626

April 7, 2004
received from New Longwood Associates,
L.P.
and/or
Arbor
Park
Phase Three Associates, L.P for the
purpose
described
in
Section
3
above, Request No. 125755.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 467-04.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance reaffirming Ordinance No. 73-84, passed January 23, 1984, in order to continue to
pick-up employee contributions to
the Police and Fire Pension Fund
under new procedures.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 7384, passed January 23, 1984, this
Council authorized a plan for Cleveland to assume and pay employee
contributions to the Police and Fire
Pension Fund (“OP&F”); and
Whereas, under the plan authorized by this Council, the City
“picks-up” all of the ten percent
(10%) mandatory contributions required under Section 742.31 of the
Ohio Revised Code for participating
employees who are members of the
OP&F; and
Whereas, the OP&F has adopted
new
procedures
for
reporting
picked-up contributions in order to
properly prepare 1099-R forms for its
members; and
Whereas, this Council reaffirms
Ordinance No. 73-84, passed January
23, 1984, in order to continue the
picked-up contributions under the
new procedures; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, effective on the
passage date of this ordinance, the
City of Cleveland shall continue to
pick-up all of the ten percent (10%)
mandatory
contributions
by
the
employees who are members of the
OP&F through a payroll reduction.
The picked-up contributions paid
through a payroll reduction, even
though designated as employee contributions for state law purposes,
are being paid by the City of Cleveland in lieu of the contributions by
the employee. The picked-up contributions will not be included in the
gross income of the employees for
tax reporting purposes, that is, for
federal or state income tax withholding
taxes,
until
distribution
from the OP&F. The employees shall
not be entitled to any option of
choosing to receive the contributed
amounts directly instead of having
them paid by the City of Cleveland
to the OP&F.

April 7, 2004
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance and the Commissioner of
Accounts are directed to implement
the provisions of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective March 30, 2004.

Ord. No. 545-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Clean Air Challenge
(Race and Walk), June 27, 2004
sponsored by the American Lung
Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Clean Air Challenge sponsored by the American
Lung Association on June 27, 2004,
with the race starting on the driveway in front of airport lobby
near
Horn
Blowers
Restaurant
(spot at crosswalk sign by Horn
Blowers, in line with black light
pole), (Note – runners will run with
the direction of road traffic on most
of the course), west on drive to
west airport exit and North Marginal, turn right/west on North
Marginal
which
comes
into
Erieside, stay on Erieside heading
west to stop sign at S.E. corner of
Browns Stadium, turn right at stop
sign heading north on Erieside to
first stop sign at N.E. corner of
Browns Stadium, turn left heading
west on Erieside around stadium,
stay
on
Erieside
heading
suth
which becomes W. 3rd St., turn
right/west onto West Lakeside Ave.
to West 9th St., turn right/north
onto West 9th St. to Front St., turn
left/west onto Front St. to West
10th St., turn left/south onto West
10th St. to West 10th St./West to St.
Clair “Hill”, (Note – West 10th St.
is a one-way street that goes south
to north, and runners will be running against the direction of traffic), turn left/east heading up Hill
onto West St. Clair, stay on St.
Clair going east to West 3rd St.,
turn left/north onto W. 3rd St. to
stop sign at S.W. corner of Browns
Stadium, turn right/east at stop
sign on North Coast Stadium Drive
to Erieside, stay on Erieside heading east onto North Marginal Dr.,
stay on North Marginal to first
(west entrance/exit) driveway of
Burke Lakefront Airport, turn left
at driveway to Finishline, finish on
driveway near airport lobby and
Horn Blowers (22ft. behind/east of
starting line spot/mark). The walk
route starts at Burke Lakefront
Airport parking lot, turn right on
Marginal Drive, turn right on East
9th Street, make loop around park,
return south on East 9th Street,
turn right on Erieside Avenue, fol-

The City Record
low
Erieside
around
Cleveland
Browns Stadium, turn left on Al
Lerner Way, follow to Erieside to
East 9th Street, turn right on East
9th Street, turn right on Lakeside
Avenue,
turn
left
on
Ontario
Avenue,
turn
left
on
Prospect
Avenue, turn left on East 18th
Street, turn left on Euclid Avenue,
turn right on East 9th Street, turn
right on Marginal Drive, turn left
into Burke Lakefront Airport parking lot, finish, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief
of Police and safety forces as may
be necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in
form satisfactory to the Director of
Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 546-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Diabetes Association of Greater
Cleveland to stretch a banner at
Cleveland State University, on the
walkway crossing over East 22nd
Street at Euclid Avenue for the period from April 23, 2004 to April 25,
2004, inclusive, publicizing the 19th
Annual Verizon Wireless Swim for
Diabetes.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Diabetes Association of Greater Cleveland to
install, maintain and remove a banner at Cleveland State University,
on the walkway crossing over East
22nd Street at Euclid Avenue for the
period from April 23, 2004 to April
25, 2004, inclusive. Said banner shall
be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.

627

41
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

Ord. No. 547-04.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency ordinance prohibiting the use of Loew Park for organized football and prohibiting the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties from issuing permits for
same, and revoking any existing
permits.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the use of Loew
Park located in Ward 16 is hereby
prohibited for the playing of organized
football.
The
Director
of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
shall not issue any permits for the
use of Loew Park for the playing of
organized football. Any existing permits for the playing of organized
football at Loew Park are hereby
permanently revoked.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 29, 2004.
Effective April 5, 2004.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, April 5, 2004
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present in
Finance: Jackson, Chair; Sweeney,
Vice Chair; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Pierce Scott, Reed,
Westbrook, White.
Tuesday, April 6, 2004
9:30 a.m.
Community
and
Economic
Development Committee: Present in
CDED: Gordon, Chair; Cimperman,
Vice Chair; Cintron, Jones, Lewis,
Reed, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Coats, Pierce Scott.
Wednesday, April 7, 2004
9:30 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present
in Safety: Reed, Chair; Britt, Vice
Chair; Brady, Coats, Conwell, Zone.
Authorized
Absence:
Cimperman,
Jones, White.

The City Record

42

April 7, 2004

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Holland & Knight LLP — Washington lobbying services — Finance Department (O 573-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

American Lung Association
Clean Air Challenge (Race and Walk) — permit (O 545-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 627

Appreciation
Wilbur, John B. (R 615-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Banners
Diabetes Association of Greater Cleveland — walkway crossing over E. 22nd St. — 19th
Annual Verizon Wireless Swim for Diabetes (O 546-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 627

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Shuttle bus system — approve subconsultants — Contract #62471 — Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 174-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Abens, Mathew — 12700 Longmead Avenue — mortgage loan / grant assistance
(BOC Res. 181-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
East 100th Street, (Ward 6) — PPN 121-18-129 (parcel 2) — to Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation per Ord. 2112-98
(BOC Res. 186-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609
George, John and Cindy — 12704 Longmead Avenue — mortgage loan / grant assistance
(BOC Res. 179-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
Guerrero, Lenin and Robin Hamrick-Guerrero — 12713 Longmead Avenue — mortgage loan / grant
assistance (BOC Res. 180-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
Palmer, David M. — 12915 Milligan Avenue — mortgage loan / grant assistance
(BOC Res. 183-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609
Sabol, James — 12702 Longmead Avenue — mortgage loan / grant assistance
(BOC Res. 182-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
St. Clair Avenue (Ward 9) — PPN 111-01-009 (westerly portion) — to Clara Trotter and
Manuel Trotter — amend BOC Res. 661-03 (BOC Res. 185-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609
Thompson, Yvette — 12927 Milligan Avenue — mortgage loan / grant assistance
(BOC Res. 184-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Superior Avenue Streetscape (between East 17th Street and East 30th Street) — contract
per Ord. 867-2000 to Terrace Construction Company — Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 178-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

Board of Control — Housing Advisory Board
Abens, Mathew — 12700 Longmead Avenue — mortgage loan / grant assistance
(BOC Res. 181-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
George, John and Cindy — 12704 Longmead Avenue — mortgage loan / grant assistance
(BOC Res. 179-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
Guerrero, Lenin and Robin Hamrick-Guerrero — 12713 Longmead Avenue — mortgage loan / grant
assistance (BOC Res. 180-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

628

April 7, 2004

The City Record

43

Palmer, David M. — 12915 Milligan Avenue — mortgage loan / grant assistance
(BOC Res. 183-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609
Sabol, James — 12702 Longmead Avenue — mortgage loan / grant assistance
(BOC Res. 182-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
Thompson, Yvette — 12927 Milligan Avenue — mortgage loan / grant assistance
(BOC Res. 184-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 100th Street, (Ward 6) — PPN 121-18-129 (parcel 2) — to Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation per Ord. 2112-98
(BOC Res. 186-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609
St. Clair Avenue (Ward 9) — PPN 111-01-009 (westerly portion) — to Clara Trotter and
Manuel Trotter — amend BOC Res. 661-03 (BOC Res. 185-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 6)
East 100th Street, (Ward 6) — PPN 121-18-129 (parcel 2) — to Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation per Ord. 2112-98
(BOC Res. 186-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 9)
St. Clair Avenue (Ward 9) — PPN 111-01-009 (westerly portion) — to Clara Trotter and
Manuel Trotter — amend BOC Res. 661-03 (BOC Res. 185-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Ford passenger car parts and labor — contract per Ord. 1981-03 to John Lance M. Ford, LLC —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 176-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Transmissions, vehicle — contract per Ord. 1974-03 to Emerald Sage Corporation
d.b.a. Aamco Transmissions — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 177-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Shuttle bus system at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — approve subconsultants —
Contract #62471 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(BOC Res. 174-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Phase 2 of various district service centers — contract per Ord. 2146-03 to Envirocom
Construction Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 175-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Superior Avenue Streetscape (between East 17th Street and East 30th Street) — contract
per Ord. 867-2000 to Terrace Construction Company — Division of Engineering and
Construction, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 178-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Ford passenger car parts and labor — contract per Ord. 1981-03 to John Lance M. Ford, LLC —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 176-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Phase 2 of various district service centers — contract per Ord. 2146-03 to Envirocom
Construction Company, Inc. (BOC Res. 175-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Superior Avenue Streetscape (between East 17th Street and East 30th Street) — contract
per Ord. 867-2000 to Terrace Construction Company — Division of Engineering and
Construction (BOC Res. 178-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
Transmissions, vehicle — contract per Ord. 1974-03 to Emerald Sage Corporation
d.b.a. Aamco Transmissions — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 177-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

629

The City Record

44

April 7, 2004

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Software system administration, support and training — amend BOC Res. 71-04 — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 169-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Water meter parts — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to AMCO Water Metering Systems, Inc. —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 172-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Water meter parts — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Badger Meter, Inc. — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 170-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Water meter parts — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Hersey Meter Company — Division of
Water (BOC Res. 171-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Water meter parts (items 3-5) — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — all bids rejected — Division of
Water (BOC Res. 173-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Ford passenger car parts and labor — contract per Ord. 1981-03 to John Lance M. Ford, LLC —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 176-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Transmissions, vehicle — contract per Ord. 1974-03 to Emerald Sage Corporation
d.b.a. Aamco Transmissions — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 177-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
Water meter parts — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to AMCO Water Metering
Systems, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 172-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Water meter parts — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Badger Meter, Inc. — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 170-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Water meter parts — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Hersey Meter Company — Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 171-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Software system administration, support and training — amend BOC Res. 71-04 — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 169-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

Board of Control — Water Division
Software system administration, support and training — amend BOC Res. 71-04 — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 169-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Water meter parts — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to AMCO Water Metering Systems, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 172-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Water meter parts — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Badger Meter, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 170-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Water meter parts — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Hersey Meter Company — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 171-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Water meter parts (items 3-5) — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — all bids rejected — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 173-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Anod, Aziz – — appeal denied and adopted on 4/5/04 (Cal. 04-51) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Carnegie Avenue, 3507, (Ward 5) – Julian Kahan a.k.a. JK Management LLC, owner, and
Martin Benade, prospective purchaser — appeal postponed to 4/26/04 on 4/5/04
(Cal. 04-58) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Carroll Avenue, 3200-04, (Ward 14) – The International Church of the Four Square Gospel,
owner c/o Pastor Don Hallum — appeal dismissed on 4/5/04
(Cal. 04-32) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Duke Avenue, 5016, (Ward 17) – Alex Gordon, owner — appeal heard on 4/5/04
(Cal. 04-56) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
East 49th Street, 1406-20, (Ward 13) – Ohio Diesel Technical Institute d.b.a. Tech
College, owner, c/o Marc Brenner, agent — appeal heard on 4/5/04
(Cal. 04-42) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610

630

April 7, 2004

The City Record

45

Governor Avenue, 11604, (Ward 19) – George M. Greenawalt, owner — appeal denied and
adopted on 4/5/04 (Cal. 04-50) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Neff Road, 18501, (Ward 11) – Tops Markets LLC, owner c/o John Crook, agent — appeal
granted and adopted on 4/5/04 (Cal. 04-53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Rocky River Drive, 3885, (Ward 21) – Westside Medical Center LLC, owner, and Fifth Third
Bank, prospective purchaser c/o Gerald G. Weber, agent — appeal heard on 4/5/04
(Cal. 04-60) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
St. Clair Avenue, 10721-23, (Ward 8) – Eric Sims and Joann Drish, co-owners — appeal
postponed to 4/26/04 on 4/5/04 (Cal. 04-55) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
West 150th Street, 4277, (Ward 20) – Boykin Cleveland, LLC, owner, c/o Ron Phol, agent —
appeal withdrawn on 4/5/04 (Cal. 04-33) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Lee Road, 4856, (Ward 1) – Lee Heights Community Church, c/o Rev. Vern Miller, owner —
appeal to be heard on 4/19/04 (Cal. 04-57) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Pearl Road, 5000, (Ward 16) – Myron Kaplan, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/19/04
(Cal. 04-64) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Puritas Avenue, 14129, (Ward 20) – Coral Puritas Partnership, owner — appeal to be heard
on 4/19/04 (Cal. 04-65) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
West 98th Street, 3140, (Ward 18) – Gerald Zahler, d.b.a. Mutual Properties, owner —
appeal to be heard on 4/19/04 (Cal. 04-66) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610

Bridges
Main Avenue Bridge — paint the structural steel — County of Cuyahoga and the Ohio
Department of Transportation (O 201-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Right-of-way assessment services — property appraisals — amendments to contracts
— bridge rehabilitation contracts (O 327-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

Budget
Expenses — fiscal year ending December 31, 2004 (O 115-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616

City of Cleveland Bids
Building materials and used paved bricks — Department of Finance — various divisions per Ord. 887-03 & 466-04 — bid due April 23, 2004 (advertised 3/31/2004 and 4/7/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Electrical motors, pumps, including attachements, parts and materials — Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of Property Management —
per Ord. 1889-03 — bid due April 23, 2004 (advertised 4/7/2004 and 4/14/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Food, beverages and paper products for Camp Forbes — Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 2043-03 — bid due April 14, 2004
(advertised 3/31/2004 and 4/7/2004). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Harvard Yard facility improvements: Building #4 renovation — Department of Public Service —
Division of Architecture — per Ord. 833-02 — bid due April 22, 2004
(advertised 3/31/2004 and 4/7/2004). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Meters and metering equipment — Department of Public Utilities — Division of
Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 1630-92 — bid due April 22, 2004
(advertised 3/31/2004 and 4/7/2004). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Nottingham Water Works plant flocculation / sedimentation / residuals — Department
of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 323-04 — bid due May
5, 2004 (advertised 4/7/2004 and 4/14/2004) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
Pool chemicals — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of Research,
Planning and Development — per Ord. 330-04 — bid due April 21, 2004
(advertised 4/7/2004 and 4/14/2004). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Steel receptables lids with flexible steel cable attached — Department of Public Service —
Division of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 1257-03 — bid due April 23, 2004
(advertised 4/7/2004 and 4/14/2004). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Summer Food Program, 2004 — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Recreation — per Ord. 2043-03 — bid due April 14, 2004
(advertised 3/31/2004 and 4/7/2004). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

631

The City Record

46

April 7, 2004

City Council
Jones, Joe Council Member, Ward 1 — request — vote recorded as yeah — Council Meeting
March 29, 2004 (F 600-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589

City Planning Commission
Fleet Ave. — study transportation and design issues — professional consultants —
Shaker Square Area Development Corporation — cooperate in the cost of this project
(O 253-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Hough Ave. (parcels) — between E. 65th St. & E. 71st St. — change the zoning — Single
Family Residential Use District — Multi-Family Residential Use District — “A” Area
Districts — “1” Height Districts (O 544-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
W. 79th St. — between Ferrell Ave. & Madison Ave. — change the zoning — Multi-Family
Residential Use District — Parking District — “E” Area A
(O 215-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Master Leases — various airlines — amendments (O 576-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Codified Ordinances
Outdoor pay telephones — regulation — amend Sections 670B.02, 670B.03, and 670B.05
(O 583-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599

Communications
Jones, Joe Council Member, Ward 1 — request — vote recorded as yeah — Council Meeting
March 29, 2004 (F 600-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department’s Rules and Regulations
(F 602-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Revised Cash Management and Investment Policy — Department of Finance
(F 601-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Community Development
Arbor Park Village — Phase III redevelopment — public improvement — New Longwood
Associates L.P. and/or Arbor Park Phase Three Associates, L.P. — agreement —
cooperate with cost (O 335-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
Cardinal Rd. — Land Reutilization Program — Beulah Baptist Church
(O 164-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624
Cleveland Church of Christ Custom Enrichment Program — agreement — Forest Hills Parkway
Empowerment Program — Ward 9 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 584-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
Community Parenting Program — amend Ord. No. 2338-02 — Ward 8 NEF
(O 587-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
E 61st, 63rd, and 66th Sts. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc. (O 339-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
East 73rd Street, 2243 — Land Reutilization Program — Wilbert J. Abernathy, Jr.
(O 1062-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
Glenville Development Corporation — agreement — Glory Girls Program — Wad
8 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 586-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
La Grange Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Rose Stewart
(O 2246-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Outhwaite Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Maurie L. Nunn
(O 2156-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Sagamore Ave., 7717 — Land Reutilization Program — Barry and Sarita A. King
(O 775-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
St. Luke’s housing development project — public improvement — Community Development and
Public Service (O 579-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597

632

April 7, 2004

The City Record

47

State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — grant — State of Ohio Department
of Development — assistance to low-income City residents
(O 251-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624
Utica Ave., 5704 — Land Reutilization Program — Ella J. Redeemen
(O 778-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
W. 50th St., 1854 — Land Reutilization Program — Ohio City Near West Development
Corporation (O 168-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624

Condolences
Downs, Elizabeth T. (R 609-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Fowler, Edward (R 607-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Thomas, Josephine (R 610-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Zovko, Jerko Gerald “Jerry” (R 608-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Congratulations
Cerminara, Bob (R 611-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Garden of Prayer Church of God in Christ Women’s Restoration Retreat (R 612-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Taylor, Nellie Ruby (R 613-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Congress of United States
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21) reauthorization — Council’s
support (R 548-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Consumer Affairs Department
Understanding the Law Program — amend Ord. No. 493-04 — Ward 9 NEF
(O 585-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601

Contracts
Education Loan Servicing Corporation — contract — economic development assistance —
1500 W. 3rd St. — interior leasehold improvements (O 580-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
PinPoint Technologies, Inc. — contracts — pen-base technical support and software
upgrades — EMS Division (O 578-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597

Cuyahoga County
Main Avenue Bridge — paint the structural steel — County of Cuyahoga and the Ohio
Department of Transportation (O 201-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

Economic Development Department
Education Loan Servicing Corporation — contract — economic development
assistance — 1500 W. 3rd St. — interior leasehold improvements
(O 580-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
Education Loan Servicing Corporation — Enterprise Zone Agreement — tax abatement
— 1500 W. 3rd St. (O 581-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

Emergency Medical Service Division
PinPoint Technologies, Inc. — contracts — pen-base technical support and software
upgrades (O 578-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Education Loan Servicing Corporation — tax abatement — 1500 W. 3rd St.
(O 581-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

633

The City Record

48

April 7, 2004

Finance Department
Expenses — fiscal year ending December 31, 2004 (O 115-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616
Holland & Knight LLP — agreement — Washington lobbying services — Finance Department
(O 573-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Revised Cash Management and Investment Policy — Department of Finance
(F 601-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Fire Division
Police and Fire Pension Fund — continue to pick-up employee contributions —
reaffirming, amending, & restating Ord. No. 73-84 (O 467-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626

Glenville Development Corporation
Glory Girls Program — agreement — Wad 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 586-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601

Grants
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — State of Ohio Department of Development
— assistance to low-income City residents (O 251-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624

Land Reutilization Program
Cardinal Rd. — Beulah Baptist Church (O 164-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624
E 61st, 63rd, and 66th Sts. — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 339-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
East 73rd Street, 2243 — Wilbert J. Abernathy, Jr. (O 1062-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
La Grange Ave. — Rose Stewart (O 2246-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Outhwaite Ave. — Maurie L. Nunn (O 2156-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Sagamore Ave., 7717 — Barry and Sarita A. King (O 775-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
Utica Ave., 5704 — Ella J. Redeemen (O 778-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
W. 50th St., 1854 — Ohio City Near West Development Corporation (O 168-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624

Liquor Permits
Columbus Rd., 1930 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 605-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
E. 131st St., 4025 — objection (Ward 2) (R 593-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
E. 25th St., 3277 — transfer (Ward 12) (F 603-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Euclid Ave., 18325, Unit #3 — objection (Ward 10) (R 591-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
Hamilton Ave., 2255 — objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 550-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Lakeshore Blvd., 15428 — objection (Ward 11) (R 592-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
Lakewood Heights Blvd., 13501 — objection (Ward 19) (R 549-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
St. Clair Ave., 16208 — Liquor Agency Contract (Ward 11) (F 606-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Superior Ave., 8329 — objection (Ward 7) (R 589-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
Union Ave., 12408 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 552-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Union Ave., 9901-03 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 553-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
University Rd., 1201 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 604-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Waterloo Rd., 15222 — objection (Ward 11) (R 551-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Cleveland Church of Christ Custom Enrichment Program — agreement — Forest Hills Parkway
Empowerment Program — Ward 9 (O 584-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
Community Parenting Program — amend Ord. No. 2338-02 — Ward 8
(O 587-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
Glenville Development Corporation — agreement — Glory Girls Program — Ward 8
(O 586-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
Understanding the Law Program — amend Ord. No. 493-04 — Ward 9
(O 585-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601

634

April 7, 2004

The City Record

49

Ohio City Near West Development Corporation
W. 50th St., 1854 — Land Reutilization Program (O 168-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Main Avenue Bridge — paint the structural steel — County of Cuyahoga and the Ohio
Department of Transportation (O 201-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Loew Park — prohibiting organized football — prohibiting permits & revoking any
existing permits (O 547-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 627
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department’s Rules and Regulations
(F 602-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Plumbing and heating equipment and supplies — amend Ord. No. 1956-98
(O 582-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
Roberto Clemente Park — expansion — purchase property (O 334-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

Peddlers
Jenkins, Antwon V. (Ward 5) (O 588-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602

Permits
American Memorial 5K Run & Walk — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 594-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
Clean Air Challenge (Race and Walk) — American Lung Association
(O 545-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 627
Diabetes Association of Greater Cleveland — walkway crossing over
E. 22nd St. — 19th Annual Verizon Wireless Swim for Diabetes
(O 546-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 627
Loew Park — prohibiting organized football — prohibiting permits & revoking any
existing permits (O 547-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 627
March of Dimes Walk — March of Dimes (O 598-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Walk — Ohio Buckeye Chapter of the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society (O 597-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
RiteAid Marathon and 10K, 27th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(O 599-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
USO Run for the Troops — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 595-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
Visiting Nurses Association Healthy Steps 5K Run & 2 Mile Walk — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 596-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602

Police Division
Police and Fire Pension Fund — continue to pick-up employee contributions —
reaffirming, amending, & restating Ord. No. 73-84
(O 467-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626

Port Control Department
Master Leases — various airlines — amendments — Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport (O 576-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Public Hearings (Notices)
Hough Ave. (parcels) — between E. 65th St. & E. 71st St. — change the zoning — Single
Family Residential Use District — Multi-Family Residential Use District — “A” Area
Districts — “1” Height Districts (O 544-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
W. 79th St. — between Ferrell Ave. & Madison Ave. — change the zoning — Multi-Family
Residential Use District — Parking District — “E” Area
(O 215-A-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

635

The City Record

50

April 7, 2004

Purchases and Supplies Division
Roberto Clemente Park — expansion — purchase property (O 334-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

Recognition
Tartan Day — April 6th (R 614-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21) reauthorization — U.S. Congress
— Council’s support (R 548-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
Troops — Council commends for their service (R 590-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604

Revenue Bonds
Water Revenue Bonds — $175,000,000 — issuance and sale (O 574-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Safety Department
PinPoint Technologies, Inc. — contracts — pen-base technical support and software
upgrades — EMS Division (O 578-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597
Police and Fire Pension Fund — continue to pick-up employee contributions
— reaffirming, amending, & restating Ord. No. 73-84
(O 467-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626

Service Department
American Memorial 5K Run & Walk — permit — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 594-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
Arbor Park Village — Phase III redevelopment — public improvement — New Longwood
Associates L.P. and/or Arbor Park Phase Three Associates, L.P. — agreement —
cooperate with cost (O 335-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
Clean Air Challenge (Race and Walk) — permit — American Lung Association
(O 545-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 627
Debris disposal services — construction and demolition — Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal (O 577-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Diabetes Association of Greater Cleveland — banner — walkway crossing over
E. 22nd St. — 19th Annual Verizon Wireless Swim for Diabetes
(O 546-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 627
Main Avenue Bridge — paint the structural steel — County of Cuyahoga and the Ohio
Department of Transportation (O 201-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
March of Dimes Walk — permit — March of Dimes
(O 598-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Walk — permit — Ohio Buckeye Chapter of the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society (O 597-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
Right-of-way assessment services — property appraisals — amendments to contracts —
bridge rehabilitation contracts (O 327-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
RiteAid Marathon and 10K, 27th — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(O 599-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
St. Luke’s housing development project — public improvement — Community Development and
Public Service (O 579-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597
Tires — transfer and disposal — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
(O 575-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595
Traffic signals, poles, controllers, sign blanks, traffic paint, beads, hardware —
purchase — Division of Traffic Engineering (O 244-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
USO Run for the Troops — permit — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 595-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
Visiting Nurses Association Healthy Steps 5K Run & 2 Mile Walk — permit — Hermes Sports
& Events (O 596-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602

636

April 7, 2004

The City Record

51

Shaker Square Development Corporation
Fleet Ave. — study transportation and design issues — professional consultants —
cooperate in the cost of this project (O 253-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

State of Ohio
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — grant — State of Ohio Department
of Development — assistance to low-income City residents
(O 251-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624

Traffic Engineering & Parking Division
Traffic signals, poles, controllers, sign blanks, traffic paint, beads, hardware —
purchase (O 244-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

Utilities Department
Arbor Park Village — Phase III redevelopment — public improvement — New Longwood
Associates L.P. and/or Arbor Park Phase Three Associates, L.P. — agreement —
cooperate with cost (O 335-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
Water Revenue Bonds — $175,000,000 — issuance and sale (O 574-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Ward 01
Jones, Joe Council Member, Ward 1 — request — vote recorded as yeah — Council Meeting
March 29, 2004 (F 600-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589
Taylor, Nellie Ruby — congratulation (R 613-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Ward 02
E. 131st St., 4025 — objection — liquor permit (R 593-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605

Ward 03
Union Ave., 12408 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 552-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Union Ave., 9901-03 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 553-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Ward 04
St. Luke’s housing development project — public improvement — Community Development and
Public Service (O 579-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597

Ward 05
Arbor Park Village — Phase III redevelopment — public improvement — New Longwood
Associates L.P. and/or Arbor Park Phase Three Associates, L.P. — agreement —
cooperate with cost (O 335-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
Cerminara, Bob — congratulation (R 611-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
E 61st, 63rd, and 66th Sts. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc. (O 339-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
East 73rd Street, 2243 — Land Reutilization Program — Wilbert J. Abernathy, Jr.
(O 1062-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
Fowler, Edward — condolence (R 607-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Jenkins, Antwon V. — peddling (O 588-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
Outhwaite Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Maurie L. Nunn
(O 2156-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
RiteAid Marathon and 10K, 27th — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(O 599-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603

637

The City Record

52

April 7, 2004

Ward 06
Fleet Ave. — study transportation and design issues — professional consultants —
Shaker Square Area Development Corporation — cooperate in the cost of this project
(O 253-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
RiteAid Marathon and 10K, 27th — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(O 599-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
Thomas, Josephine — condolence (R 610-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Ward 07
Hough Ave. (parcels) — between E. 65th St. & E. 71st St. — change the zoning — Single
Family Residential Use District — Multi-Family Residential Use District — “A” Area
Districts — “1” Height Districts (O 544-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
La Grange Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Rose Stewart
(O 2246-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
RiteAid Marathon and 10K, 27th — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(O 599-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
Sagamore Ave., 7717 — Land Reutilization Program — Barry and Sarita A. King
(O 775-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
Superior Ave., 8329 — objection — liquor permit (R 589-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
Utica Ave., 5704 — Land Reutilization Program — Ella J. Redeemen
(O 778-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615

Ward 08
Community Parenting Program — amend Ord. No. 2338-02 — NEF
(O 587-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
Downs, Elizabeth T. — condolence (R 609-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Glenville Development Corporation — agreement — Glory Girls Program — Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 586-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
RiteAid Marathon and 10K, 27th — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(O 599-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603

Ward 09
Cleveland Church of Christ Custom Enrichment Program — agreement — Forest Hills Parkway
Empowerment Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 584-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
Understanding the Law Program — amend Ord. No. 493-04 — NEF
(O 585-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601

Ward 10
Cardinal Rd. — Land Reutilization Program — Beulah Baptist Church
(O 164-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624
Euclid Ave., 18325, Unit #3 — objection — liquor permit (R 591-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
Garden of Prayer Church of God in Christ Women’s Restoration Retreat — congratulation
(R 612-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Ward 11
Cerminara, Bob — congratulation (R 611-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Lakeshore Blvd., 15428 — objection — liquor permit (R 592-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
St. Clair Ave., 16208 — Liquor Agency Contract — liquor permit (F 606-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Waterloo Rd., 15222 — objection — liquor permit (R 551-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Zovko, Jerko Gerald “Jerry” — condolence (R 608-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Ward 12
E. 25th St., 3277 — transfer — liquor permit (F 603-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Fleet Ave. — study transportation and design issues — professional consultants —
Shaker Square Area Development Corporation — cooperate in the cost of this project
(O 253-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

638

April 7, 2004

The City Record

53

Ward 13
American Memorial 5K Run & Walk — permit — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 594-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
Clean Air Challenge (Race and Walk) — permit — American Lung Association
(O 545-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 627
Diabetes Association of Greater Cleveland — banner — walkway crossing over
E. 22nd St. — 19th Annual Verizon Wireless Swim for Diabetes
(O 546-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 627
Education Loan Servicing Corporation — contract — economic development
assistance — 1500 W. 3rd St. — interior leasehold improvements
(O 580-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
Education Loan Servicing Corporation — Enterprise Zone Agreement — tax abatement
— 1500 W. 3rd St. (O 581-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
Hamilton Ave., 2255 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 550-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
March of Dimes Walk — permit — March of Dimes
(O 598-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Walk — permit — Ohio Buckeye Chapter of the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society (O 597-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
RiteAid Marathon and 10K, 27th — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(O 599-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
University Rd., 1201 — transfer — liquor permit (F 604-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
USO Run for the Troops — permit — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 595-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
Visiting Nurses Association Healthy Steps 5K Run & 2 Mile Walk — permit — Hermes Sports
& Events (O 596-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
Wilbur, John B. — appreciation (R 615-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Ward 14
Columbus Rd., 1930 — transfer — liquor permit
(F 605-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
RiteAid Marathon and 10K, 27th — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(O 599-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
Roberto Clemente Park — expansion — purchase property
(O 334-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Wilbur, John B. — appreciation (R 615-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Ward 16
Loew Park — prohibiting organized football — prohibiting permits & revoking any
existing permits (O 547-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 627

Ward 17
RiteAid Marathon and 10K, 27th — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(O 599-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
W. 50th St., 1854 — Land Reutilization Program — Ohio City Near West Development
Corporation (O 168-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624
W. 79th St. — between Ferrell Ave. & Madison Ave. — change the zoning —
Multi-Family Residential Use District — Parking District — “E” Area
(O 215-A-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Wilbur, John B. — appreciation (R 615-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

Ward 18
RiteAid Marathon and 10K, 27th — permit — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(O 599-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
Tartan Day — April 6th — recognition (R 614-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590

639

The City Record

54

April 7, 2004

Ward 19
Lakewood Heights Blvd., 13501 — objection — liquor permit
(R 549-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Debris disposal services — construction and demolition
(O 577-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Tires — transfer and disposal (O 575-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595

Weatherization Program
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — grant — State of Ohio Department
of Development — assistance to low-income City residents
(O 251-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624

Zoning
Hough Ave. (parcels) — between E. 65th St. & E. 71st St. — change the zoning — Single
Family Residential Use District — Multi-Family Residential Use District — “A” Area
Districts — “1” Height Districts (O 544-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
W. 79th St. — between Ferrell Ave. & Madison Ave. — change the zoning — Multi-Family
Residential Use District — Parking District — “E” Area
(O 215-A-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

640

April 7, 2004

The City Record

PPPP

55

