The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

September the Twenty-Second, Two Thousand and Four

Jane L. Campbell
Mayor

Frank G. Jackson
President of Council

Valarie J. McCall
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
18
18
24
24
25
25
25
25
25
28
29

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Frank G. Jackson
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ...................................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson..................................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott ..............................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell...................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
Roosevelt Coats.....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka .................................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr. ....................................................3004 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon .................................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley ..........................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone......................................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Debra M. Janik, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Craig Tame, Executive Assistant
Galen L. Schuerlein, Executive Assistant
––––––––––––, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
Lorna Wisham, Chief Public Affairs Officer

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44144
44102
44102
44102
44111
44111

DEPT. OF LAW – Subodh Chandra, Director, Teresa Beasley, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – James S. Higgins, Commissioner, 1404 East 9th Street
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Julius Ciaccia, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – _______________, Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Dr. Wendy Johnson, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Sanford E. Watson, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Natalie A. Ronayne, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – James G. Williams, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Gina Routen, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Gregory G. Huth, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Director; Mayor Jane
L. Campbell, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L.
Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry, Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline
Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J.
Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
William Morrison.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Council President Frank
G. Jackson; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Christopher Carmody,
______________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F. Denk,
Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E.
P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Subodh Chandra, President;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker, Secretary; Council President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law Director
Subodh Chandra; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Utilities
Director ______________; Council President Frank G. Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke, Lawrence A. Lumpkin,
Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small, Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela Caldwell,
Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb,Council Member
Nelson Cintron, Ed Romero.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia
Nolan, David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton, Council Member Merle
Gordon.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Cindy Barber, Vice Chair; Michael Doud,
Doris Honsa, Richard Lenard.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Chairman; Finance
Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson; Councilman Dona Brady;
Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman; Donald
Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond Ossovicki, Chief Electrical
Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl S. Bumgarner,
Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V.
Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Paul Volpe, Chair; Ted Sande,
Vice Chair; James Gibans, India Pierce Lee, Robert Madison, Randall B. Shorr, Chris
Ronayne, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Dwayne J. Simpson; Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
Judge Emanuella Groves
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
Judge Mary Eileen Kilbane
Judge Anita Laster Mays
Judge Lauren C. Moore
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
Judge Joseph J. Zone

Courtroom
14B
15A
13A
14D
13D
14C
12C
12B
13B
15C
12A
14A
13C

Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Regina Daniel – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004

Vol. 91

No. 4737

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Johnson, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Coats.

Address all communications to

10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation
Committee:
Westbrook,
Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt, Dolan, Gordon, Reed,
Rybka.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

VALARIE J. McCALL

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley,
Vice
Chairman;
Brady,
Cintron,
Jones, Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee:
Cimperman,
Chairman,
Rybka, Vice Chairman, Conwell,
Lewis, O’Malley, Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:

MONDAY—Alternating

Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Pierce Scott.

11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Pierce Scott,
Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Pierce Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00 P.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Britt, Chairman;
Zone, Vice Chairman; Cintron, Conwell, Gordon, Pierce Scott, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Pierce Scott, Vice
Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson,
Rybka, Westbrook.

Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman; O’Malley, Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook.

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 1790-04.
From Governor Bob Taft — receipt letter of Resolution No. 1540-04.
Received.
File No. 1791-04.
From the Office of Equal Opportunity and the Department of Port
Control — Executive Summary of
Bi-Monthly Office of Equal Opportunity Air Report. Received.
File No. 1792-04.
From the State Auditor — Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
for the Fiscal Year Ended December
31, 2003. Received.
File No. 1793-04.
From the Economic Development
Department — re: Recommendations
of Tax Incentive Review Council.
Received.
File No. 1794-04.
From Fair Employment Wage
Board — re: Fair Employment Wage
Law Notice to Covered Employees.
Received.
File No. 1795-04.
From the Department of Public
Service — letter requesting Resolution No. 2049-03 be tabled. Received.

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, September 20, 2004
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Conwell,
Dolan,
Gordon,
Johnson,
Jones,
Lewis, O’Malley, Pierce Scott, Polensek,
Reed,
Sweeney,
Westbrook,
White and Zone.
Also present were Chief of Staff
Janik,
Chief
Operating
Officer
Brown, Directors Chandra, Baker,
Ciaccia, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Watson,
N. Ronayne, Rush, Williams, Huth,
Fumich, Taylor, Johnson, C. Ronayne, and Margreat Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Minister Gloria Chaney of Christian Church, 3940
Martin
Luther
King
Jr.
Drive,
located in Ward 6. Pledge of Allegiance.

1831

FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1796-04.
Re: New Application — 4248529 —
Jasmin Beverage, Inc., d.b.a. Times
Square Food Mart, 3832 Martin Luther
King Jr. Dr. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1797-04.
Re: New Application — 5651345 —
Anthony B. Mave, 4401 Lester Avenue.
(Ward 5). Received.
File No. 1798-04.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 02520690015 — Aramark Educational Services, Inc., d.b.a. Tortilla
Fresca, 2121 Euclid Avenue, Basement
southwest
corner.
(Ward
13).
Received.
File No. 1799-04.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 26775140005 — Fella Partnership, d.b.a. Steve’s Pizza & Spaghetti
House, 3582 West 105th Street. (Ward
19). Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 1800-04.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 5919977 — Micky D. L.T.D.,
d.b.a. Castlebar Inn, 16612 Lorain Avenue. (Ward 21). Received.
File No. 1801-04.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 5325130 —
Lozada LLC, d.b.a. Lozadas Restaurant, 1909 West 25th Street. (Ward 14).
Received.
File No. 1802-04.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 5691618 — Its A Wrap, LLC,
d.b.a. Monterey Grille, 7348 Broadway
Avenue, first floor and basement.
(Ward 12). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1804-04—Linda Bolden.
Res.
No.
1805-04—Joseph
Lee
Williams.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1806-04—Black Women’s
Political Action Committee.
Res. No. 1807-04 — Mrs. Georgia
Murphy.
Res. No. 1808-04 — Martin — Leverett Family Reunion.
Res. No. 1809-04—Cudell Improvement, Inc.
Res. No 1810-04 — Pilgrim United
Church of Christ.
Res. No. 1811-04—Ada E. Norwood.
Res. No. 1812-04 — Lessie Barnes
Brown.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1813-04—Alicia Alvarado.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1769-04.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $15,000,000 for the purpose of refunding the City’s Nontax
Revenue Bonds, Series 1999 (Cleveland Stadium Project).
Whereas, the City issued nontax
revenue obligations in 1999 to pay a
portion of the costs of constructing
the sports facility now known as
Cleveland Browns Stadium, consisting of a $5,000,957.05 Nontax Revenue Bond, Series 1999A (Cleveland
Stadium Project) delivered on April
8, 1999, and a $4,998,680.50 Nontax
Revenue Bond, Series 1999B (Cleveland Stadium Project) delivered on
June 8, 1999 (together referred to in
this ordinance as the “Prior Bonds”);
and
Whereas, the City seeks to obtain
debt service savings by refunding
the Prior Bonds by the obligations
authorized in this Ordinance (the
“Bonds”); and

Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be refinanced with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is August 1,
2029; and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to refund the Prior Bonds and
obtain debt service savings at the
earliest possible time, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is necessary
to issue the Bonds in an aggregate
principal amount not to exceed
$15,000,000 for the purpose of refunding the Prior Bonds, including payment of financing costs within the
meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the
Revised Code. The City shall obtain
aggregate net present value savings
of not less than three percent (3%)
as a result of refunding the Prior
Bonds by the Bonds authorized by
this Ordinance.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City and
this Ordinance in the principal
amount and for the purpose stated
in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Nontax Revenue Refunding
Bonds, Series 2004.” The Bonds shall
be issued in one lot as fully registered Bonds in denominations of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
December 1, 2004, or such other date
specified in the certificate of the
Director of Finance providing for
the final terms of the Bonds and the
sale of the Bonds in accordance
with this Ordinance (the “Certificate
of Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed six percent (6%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed six percent (6%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 of each year or on the
days specified in the Certificate of
Award as the dates on which interest on the Bonds shall be payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”),
beginning June 1, 2005 or on such
other Interest Payment Date specified in the Certificate of Award as
the first Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature on December 1 in the years and amounts set
forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal pay-

1832

September 22, 2004
ment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the final maturity
date of the Bonds shall be no later
than August 1, 2029, and (iii) the
principal amount payable in any fiscal year shall not exceed $2,000,000.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
Section 3. Redemption. The Bonds
shall be subject to redemption prior
to stated maturity as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates. The aggregate of the moneys to be deposited
in the Debt Service Fund for payment of principal of and interest on
any
Term
Bonds
shall
include
amounts sufficient to redeem on the
Mandatory Redemption Dates the
principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 4) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing a
certificate to the Registrar, signed
by the Director of Finance, setting
forth the extent of the credit to be
applied with respect to the then current Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is not timely furnished to
the Registrar, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements)
or
purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit

September 22, 2004
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date, provided the first optional
redemption date shall not be later
than December 1, 2014 and the highest redemption price shall not be
greater than 102%. The Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the
best interests of the City for the
Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar. There shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date funds
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price all of the redeemable
Bonds for which notice of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,

The City Record
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any
municipal bond insurance company
that has issued a policy insuring
some or all of the Bonds. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.

1833

5
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar as paying agent. Principal
shall be payable when due upon presentation
and
surrender
of
the
Bonds at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid on each
Interest Payment Date by check or
draft mailed to the person in whose
name the Bond was registered, and
to that person’s address appearing,
on the Bond Register (as defined in
Section 4) at the close of business
on the date provided in the Agreement authorized in Section 4 (the
“Record Date”).
Section 4. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agent. The Bonds
shall express upon their faces the
purpose for which they are issued
and that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance. The Bonds shall be
signed by the Mayor and by the
Director of Finance. Either or both
of those signatures may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which may be a facsimile. The Director of Law shall
prepare the Bonds and shall evidence approval of the form and correctness of the Bonds by his or her
manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”). The Director of Finance shall sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City,
the
Registrar
Agreement
between the City and the Registrar
(the “Agreement”) in substantially
the form as is now on file with the
Clerk of Council in File No. 1769-04A. The Agreement is approved,
together
with
any
changes
or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Law shall
determine and approve the form and
correctness of the Agreement. The
Director of Finance shall provide for
the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its designated corporate
trust office all books and records
necessary
for
the
registration,
exchange and transfer of Bonds as
provided in this Section (the “Bond
Register”). Subject to the provisions
of Section 5 with respect to beneficial owners, the person in whose
name a Bond is registered on the
Bond Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Regis-

6
trar shall be affected by any notice
to the contrary, but the registration
may be changed as provided in this
Section. All such payments shall be
valid and effectual to satisfy and
discharge the City’s liability upon
the Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.

The City Record
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the assigns of the
Depository or its nominee, all at the
cost and expense (including any
costs of printing), if the event is not
the result of City action or inaction,
of those persons requesting such
issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
authorized
and
directed
to
the
extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 5. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to A.G.

1834

September 22, 2004
Edwards & Sons, Inc. and SBKBrooks Investment Corp. (together,
the “Original Purchaser”).
The Certificate of Award shall
specify the final terms of the Bonds
in accordance with law, the provisions of this Ordinance, the written
advice of either Government Capital
Management,
LLC
or
Columbia
Equity Financial Corporation or
both (the “Financial Advisor”), and
the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Bonds, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, the
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), the interest
rate or rates, the amounts and years
in which principal is payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate.
The Mayor, the Director of Finance,
and the Director of Law, as appropriate, and other appropriate City
officials are, and each of them is,
authorized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Director of Finance is
further authorized and directed to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a bond purchase agreement
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, between the
City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the terms and conditions
on which the City agrees to sell the
Bonds and the Original Purchaser
agrees to buy the Bonds on terms
consistent with this Ordinance. The
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
is
approved substantially in the form
now on the file with the Clerk of
Council in the File referenced in
Section 4, together with any changes
or amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best inter-

September 22, 2004
est of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements and to authorize
the use and distribution of that Official Statement and any supplements.
Each of those officers is authorized
to sign on behalf of the City and in
his or her official capacity that Official Statement and any supplements
approved by that officer. Those officers are, and each of them is, authorized to sign and deliver, on behalf
of the City and in their official
capacities, such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the
Official Statement and any supplements as may, in their judgment, be
necessary or appropriate. Those officers are also authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”). The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
services for the production and distribution of preliminary and final
official statements, including by
printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance
of that Agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the Financial
Advisor and legal counsel.
Section 6. Source of Payment of
the Bonds. The Bonds shall be special obligations of the City, and the
debt charges on the Bonds shall be
payable solely from moneys of the

The City Record
City which are not moneys raised by
taxation, to the extent available for
the purpose of paying debt charges
on the Bonds, including, but not limited to the following: (a) grants
from the United States of America
and the State; (b) payments in lieu
of taxes now or hereafter authorized
by State statute; (c) fines and forfeitures which are deposited in the
City’s
General
Fund;
(d)
fees
deposited in the City’s General Fund
for services provided and from properly imposed licenses and permits;
(e) investment earnings on the
City’s General Fund; (f) investment
earnings on other funds of the City
that are credited to the City’s General Fund; (g) proceeds from the
sale of assets which are deposited
in the City’s General Fund; (h) gifts
and donations; and (i) all rental
payments which are deposited in the
City’s General Fund (collectively,
the “Nontax Revenues”). The Bonds
are not and shall not be secured by
an obligation or pledge of any
money raised by taxation. The
Bonds do not and shall not represent
or constitute a debt or pledge of the
faith and credit or taxing power of
the City, and the owners thereof
have and shall have no right to
have taxes levied by the City for the
payment of debt charges thereon.
The Bonds shall contain a statement
to that effect and to the effect that
the Bonds are payable solely from
the Nontax Revenues and are not
secured by an obligation or pledge
of any money raised by taxation.
The City covenants and agrees
that while the Bonds are outstanding, it will appropriate and maintain
Nontax Revenues at such times and
in such amounts as will be sufficient, together with any other funds
available for the purpose, to pay the
debt charges on the Bonds and will
so restrict other obligations payable
from Nontax Revenues prior to or on
a parity with the Bonds as will
ensure the continuing availability
for appropriation of sufficient Nontax Revenues to pay debt charges
when due.
Section 7. Debt Service Fund; Payment of Debt Charges on the Bonds.
There is created by the City a separate fund or account designated as
the “Series 2004 Nontax Revenue
Refunding Bonds (Cleveland Stadium Project) Debt Service Fund”
(referred to in this Ordinance as the
“Debt Service Fund”). There shall be
deposited in the Debt Service Fund,
on or prior to the date debt charges
on the Bonds are due, Nontax Revenues in an amount sufficient to pay
those debt charges. Money in the
Debt Service Fund shall be invested
in accordance with the City’s investment policies then in effect. The
payment of debt service on the
Bonds is secured by a pledge of and
lien on the Debt Service Fund. The
City shall not be required to use or
apply
to
the
payment
of
debt
charges on the Bonds any funds or
revenues from any source other than
the Nontax Revenues. However, the
City, of its own volition, is not prohibited from using, to the extent
that it is authorized by law to do
so, any other resources for the fulfillment of any of the terms, conditions or obligations of this Ordinance or of the Bonds.
The City will, solely from the proceeds of the Bonds or from the Nontax Revenues, pay or cause to be

1835

7
paid the debt charges on the Bonds
on the dates, at the places and in
the manner provided in this Ordinance and in the Bonds. For that
purpose, in each year while the
Bonds are outstanding, this Council,
after providing for the payment of
debt charges payable on the City’s
general obligation securities in that
year from sources available for that
purpose, will appropriate Nontax
Revenues required to pay, and for
the purpose of paying, the debt
charges due in that year on the
Bonds (less other money available
for the purpose) and any outstanding parity obligations payable from
Nontax
Revenues.
Further,
this
Council will give effect to such
appropriations in all ordinances it
passes thereafter in that year appropriating money for expenditure and
encumbrance and limit the other
appropriations of Nontax Revenues
in that year to the amount available
after deducting the amount required
for the payment of debt charges
payable on the City’s general obligation securities and to pay those
debt charges. The City covenants
that, so long as any of the Bonds
are outstanding, it shall not issue
any additional obligations payable
from the Nontax Revenues on a parity with the Bonds and any outstanding parity obligations payable
from Nontax Revenues, unless, prior
to passage of the ordinance authorizing such parity obligations, the
Director of Finance shall have certified to this Council that the Nontax Revenues during the preceding
calendar year, adjusted to reflect, if
necessary, changes in the rates or
charges resulting in the Nontax
Revenues, aggregate in amount not
less than 100% of the highest
amount of (a) debt charges on the
Bonds and (b) required payments on
such proposed parity obligations
and any outstanding parity obligations due in any succeeding calendar year.
Each
obligation
of
the
City
required to be undertaken pursuant
to this Ordinance and the Bonds is
binding upon the City, and upon
each officer or employee of the City
as may from time to time have the
authority under law to take any
action on behalf of the City as may
be necessary to perform all or any
part of such obligation, as a duty of
the City and of each of those officers and employees resulting from
an office, trust or station within the
meaning of Section 2731.01 of the
Revised Code, providing for enforcement by writ of mandamus.
Section 8. Refunding of Prior
Bonds. The Prior Bonds are subject
to prepayment by the City in whole
or in part on any date, without
penalty or premium, upon three
business days’ notice to the registered owner, together with interest
accrued but unpaid on the amount
prepaid
(the
compound
accreted
amount) to the date of prepayment.
Upon the sale of the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized
and directed to give notice of prepayment of the Prior Bonds on the
date determined by the Director of
Finance to be the earliest practicable date for that prepayment. The
Director of Finance is authorized
and directed to take such other
actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to accomplish the prepayment of the Prior Bonds.

8
Section 9. Application of Proceeds
of Bonds. The proceeds of the Bonds
shall be applied as follows: (i) any
amount received as accrued interest
or premium on the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Debt Service Fund
created in Section 7 of this Ordinance, (ii) an amount determined by
the calculation agent for the Prior
Bonds to be sufficient to prepay the
compound accreted amount of the
Prior Bonds on the prepayment date
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance pursuant to Section 8 of
this Ordinance shall be applied to
that prepayment, and (iii) the balance of the proceeds shall be used
to pay financing costs within the
meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the
Revised Code, including the cost of
any bond insurance or other credit
support with respect to the Bonds.
Section 10. Defeasance of the
Bonds.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or make provision for
payment of the principal, any premium and interest on all the outstanding
Bonds,
this
Ordinance
(except for Sections 3 and 10(b))
shall cease to be of further effect,
and the covenants, agreements and
other obligations of the City under
this Ordinance shall be discharged
and satisfied.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 10(a), if:
(i) the Paying Agent shall hold in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Paying Agent shall hold
in trust for, and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations of the United States certified
by an independent firm of national
reputation to be of such maturities
and interest payment dates and to
bear such interest, without further
investment or reinvestment of either
the principal amount thereof or the
interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together with moneys referred to in (i)
above, for the payment, at their
maturities or redemption dates, of
all debt charges on the Bonds to
their date of maturity or redemption, as the case may be, or if
default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the
date of the tender of such payment;
provided, that if any Bonds are to
be redeemed prior to the maturity
thereof, notice of such redemption
shall have been duly given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the
Trustee shall have been duly made
for the giving of such notice. Any
moneys held by the Paying Agent in
accordance with the provisions of
this Section may be invested in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance.
Section 11. Ratings, Insurance,
and Other Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance, based on written advice of
a Financial Advisor, the filing of an
application for a rating on the
Bonds by one or more nationally rec-

The City Record
ognized rating agencies, or the
obtaining of an insurance policy or
other credit support instrument is in
the best interest of, and financially
advantageous to, the City, the Director of Finance is authorized to prepare and submit those applications
and to obtain that credit support
instrument. The cost of obtaining
each rating and any credit support
instrument, except to the extent
paid by the Original Purchaser in
accordance
with
the
Purchase
Agreement, shall be paid from the
proceeds of the Bonds. The Director
of Finance may enter into any written agreements he determines are
necessary to obtain a credit support
instrument,
consistent
with
this
Ordinance. The form and correctness
of any such agreement shall be
determined and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section
12.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (a) the Bonds will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code) or (ii) be treated
other than as bonds to which Section 103(a) of the Code applies, and
(b) the interest thereon will not be
treated as an item of tax preference
under Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Bonds
to be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions
that would adversely affect that
exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for it, will, among other acts of
compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the Bonds to the governmental
purpose
of
the
borrowing,
(ii)
restrict the yield on investment
property acquired with those proceeds, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Bonds is
also made with respect to all issues
any portion of the debt service on
which is paid from proceeds of the
Bonds (and, if different, the original
issue and any refunding issues in a
series of refundings), to the extent
such compliance is necessary to
assure exclusion of interest on the
Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above are authorized
to take actions with respect to those
issues as they are authorized in this
Section to take with respect to the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Bonds is authorized
(a) to make or effect any election,
selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or waiver on behalf

1836

September 22, 2004
of the City with respect to the
Bonds as the City is permitted or
required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws, including,
without limitation thereto, any of
the elections provided for in Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Bonds or
interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose,
reducing
the
burden
or
expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or payments
or penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Bonds, and (c) to
give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion in
the transcript of proceedings for the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Bonds.
Section 13. Interest Rate Hedges
and Other Arrangements. For the
purpose of achieving the optimal
available debt structure for the
Bonds, the Director of Finance may,
based on the written advice of a
financial advisor (which may be the
Financial Advisor identified in Section 5 or may be another firm experienced in advising municipalities
concerning hedging arrangements),
enter into one or more agreements
in anticipation of, in connection
with or subsequent to the issuance
of the Bonds for an interest rate
swap, an interest rate cap or other
arrangements to lower the effective
interest rate on the obligations of
the City or to hedge the exposure of
the City against fluctuations in prevailing interest rates or to optimize
the City’s cash flow, provided, however, that: (i) the counterparty to
any such agreement or arrangement
shall have a rating of at least “A”
by either Moody’s Investors Service,
Inc., or Standard & Poor’s Corporation; (ii) no such agreement or
arrangement shall purport to entitle
the counterparty or provider to payment by the City from any source
other than the sources of payment
for the Bonds as described in this
Ordinance; (iii) the terms of the
agreements or arrangements shall
have been determined by the Director of Finance, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, to be
justified by the corresponding benefit to the City and to be commercially reasonable based on then current market conditions. The form
and correctness of any agreement
entered into under authority of this
Section shall be approved by the
Director of Law.

September 22, 2004
Section 14. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 15. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds in order to make
then legal, valid and binding obligations of the City have happened,
been done and been performed in
regular and due form as required be
law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness
or
taxation,
either
statutory or constitutional, will have
been exceeded in the issuance of the
Bonds. It is further found and determined, and is represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 16. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to forward
a certified copy of this Ordinance
and of the Certificate of Award for
the Bonds to the County Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 17. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is declared to be
an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent,
it is declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any
provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such
provisions to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared
to be the legislative intent that the
other provisions of this Ordinance
would have been passed independently of such section, or parts of a
section, so held to be invalid.
Section 18. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or con-

The City Record
tracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance.
Section 19. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to refund
the Prior Bonds and obtain debt service savings, and for the usual daily
operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1770-04.
By
Council
Members
Gordon,
Lewis, and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment
to Lease Agreement No. 62490 with
the Northeast Ohio Neighborhood
Health Services to extend the term
of the lease for an additional ten
months to operate the Cleveland
Career Center located at 1468 East
55th Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an amendment to
Lease Agreement No. 62490 with the
Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health
Services to extend the term of the
lease an additional ten months, from
November 1, 2004 to August 31, 2005,
to operate the Cleveland Career Center located at 1468 East 55th Street.
That the costs of the amendment
shall be paid from Fund No. 16 SF
905, Request No. 148418. All other
terms and conditions of the original
lease shall remain the same.
Section 2. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain terms and
provisions as the Director deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training
Finance.
Ord. No. 1771-04.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various

1837

9
types of furniture, fixtures, and
equipment, for the Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one or two years of the
necessary items of various types of
furniture, fixtures, and equipment,
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than one year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Service is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against Fund Nos. 11 SF
006, 20 SF 362, 20 SF 371, 20 SF 381,
20 SF 391, 01-400200-692700, and any
other proper appropriation accounts.
(RL 115264)
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance shall certify the amount of
the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Service may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

10
Ord. No. 1772-04.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency ordinance designating The Krather Building School
as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate The Krather
Building as a landmark; and
Whereas,
the
owner
of
The
Krather Building has been properly
notified and has consented in writing to the proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended
designation
of
The
Krather Building as a landmark and
has set forth certain findings of fact
constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health, and safety in that the
immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or
value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That The Krather Building whose street address in the City
of Cleveland is 4138-46 Pearl Road,
S.W., also known as Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number 014-12-049, and the land embracing the site thereof, which in its
entirety is a property having special
character or special historical or
aesthetic value as part of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City, State, or the
United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1775-04.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to
Glenville Homes, III L.P.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 108-15-098 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Glenville Homes, III L.P.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 108-15-098
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
24 in Blakeslee Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 363 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 41 of Maps, Page 11
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 110th Street, and
extending back of equal width 100
feet deep, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 108-16-011 as
more
fully
described
below
to
Glenville Homes, III L.P.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 108-16-011
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
13 in William Stanley’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 362 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 23 of Maps,
Page
25
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Dupont Avenue, N.E. and extending back of
equal width 120 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 109-19-090 as
more
fully
described
below
to
Glenville Homes, III L.P.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 109-19-090
Parcel 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 165 in Morison and Glenn’s
Boulevard Park Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 378, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 19 of Maps, Page 26
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 35 feet front on the Southerly side of Olivet Avenue, N.E. and
extending back 104-32/100 feet deep
on the Easterly line, 105-07/100 feet
deep Westerly line and 35-01/100

1838

September 22, 2004
feet wide in the rear, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Parcel No. 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
378, bounded and described as follows:
On the North by the Southerly line
of Sublot No. 165 in Morison and
Glenn’s “Boulevard Park” Allotment
as recorded in Volume 19 of Maps,
Page
26
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; on the East and West by
the Easterly and Westerly line of
said Sublot produced Southerly, and
on the South by the Northerly line
of an alley shown on the plat of Curtiss-Ambler
and
Johnson’s
Allotment, as recorded in Volume 16 of
Maps, Page 10 of Cuyahoga County
Records,
being
a
part
of
the
“Dummy Strip”; so called, in said
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
378, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 109-19-091 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Glenville Homes, III L.P.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 109-19-091
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
378 and all of Sublot No. 166 in Morrison and Glenn’s Boulevard Park
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 378, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 19
of Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records, together forming a parcel of land, bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a point in the
Southerly line of Olivet Avenue,
N.E. (44 feet wide) at the Northeasterly corner of said Sublot No.
166; thence Westerly along said
Southerly line of Olivet Avenue, 35
feet to the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 166; thence Southerly long the Westerly line of said
Sublot No. 166 and its Southerly prolongation thereof to the Northerly
line of Olivet Court (12 feet wide);
thence Easterly along said Northerly line of Olivet Court, about 35 feet
to its intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the Easterly line
of said Sublot No. 166; thence
Northerly along said Southerly prolongation and along the Easterly
line of said Sublot No. 166 to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 109-19-128 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Glenville Homes, III L.P.

September 22, 2004
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 109-19-128
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
112 in Morison and Glenn’s Boulevard Park Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 378,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 19 of Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 35
feet front on the Northerly side of
Olivet Avenue N.E., (formerly Olivet
Street)
and
extending
back
97
82/100 feet on the Easterly line, 98
12/100 feet on the Westerly line, and
having a rear line of 35 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 109-20-011 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Glenville Homes, III L.P.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 109-20-011
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
6 in the Lake View Road Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot Nos. 371, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 52 of Maps,
Page
38
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 43.55 feet front
on the Westerly side of Lakeview
Road N.E., and extending back of
equal width 117.83 feet deep on the
Northerly line, 124.33 feet deep on
the Southerly line and 43.06 feet
wide in the rear, be the same more
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 109-20-025 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Glenville Homes, III L.P.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 109-20-025
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
17 and part of Sublot No. 14 in Lakeview Road Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 371,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 52 of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records, together forming a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
Linn Drive, N.E. at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 17;
thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Linn Drive, N.E., 45 feet
to the Northwesterly corner of said
Sublot No. 17; thence Easterly along
the Northerly line of said Sublot No.

The City Record
17 and along the Easterly prolongation thereof, 125.62 feet to the Easterly line of Sublot No. 14; thence
Southerly along said Easterly line
of Sublot No. 14, 45 feet to the Southeasterly corner thereof, thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said
Sublot Nos. 14 and 17, 125.695 feet to
the place of beginning, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 15. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 16. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 17. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 18. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1776-04.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance designating Wilbur Wright Middle School
as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed
to
designate
Wilbur
Wright Middle School as a landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on April 22, 2004 to discuss the
proposed
designation
of
Wilbur
Wright Middle School as a landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of Wilbur
Wright Middle School as a landmark
and has set forth certain findings of
fact constituting the basis for its
decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation

1839

11
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Wilbur Wright
Middle School whose street address
in the City of Cleveland is 11005
Parkhurst Drive, S.W., also known
as Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number 018-08-031,
and the land embracing the site
thereof, which in its entirety is a
property having special character or
special historical or aesthetic value
as part of the development, heritage,
or cultural characteristics of the
City, State, or the United States, is
designated a landmark under Chapter 161 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1789-04.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at on scattered sites to
Hough Homes, L.P.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted and implemented procedures
under Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated
within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 109-21-099 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Hough Homes, L.P.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 109-21-099
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
234 in Knight, Richardson & Moore’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 379, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 24
of Maps, Page 5 of Cuyahoga Coun-

12
ty Records, and being 35.00 feet
front on the Northerly side of Ada
Avenue, N.E., and extending back
128.58 feet on the Easterly line,
128.31 feet on the Westerly line and
having a rear line of 35.00 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-15-165 as
more
fully
described
below
to
Hough Homes, L.P.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-15-165
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 265 in the Elworthy-Helwick Company’s Forest Hill Parkway Subdivision of part of original
100 acre Lots 372 and 373 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 66
of Maps, Page 16, bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Southeasterly
line of Woodside Avenue, N.E., at
the Northwesterly corner of a parcel
of land conveyed to the Society for
Savings in the City of Cleveland by
deed dated June 30, 1936 and recorded in Volume 4653, Page 448 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Southwesterly along the Southeasterly line of Woodside Avenue N.E.,
37.57 feet to the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 265; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
Sublot 265, 124.57 to the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Easterly
along the Southerly line of Sublot
No. 265, 34.50 feet; thence northerly
to
the
place
of
beginning,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also
subject
to
restrictions
appearing of record in Volume 2219,
Page 338.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-30-003 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Hough Homes, L.P.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

The City Record
Knight, Richardson and Moore’s
Subdivision of part of Original 100
Acre Lot N. 379 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 24 of Maps,
Page 5 of Cuyahoga County Records
and bounded and described as follows: Beginning at a point in the
Easterly line of East 114th Street
which is 15 inches Southerly as measured along said Easterly line from
the Northwesterly corner of said
Sublot No. 186; thence Northerly 15
inches to the Northwesterly corner
of said Sublot; thence Easterly 100
feet to the Northeasterly corner of
said Sublot; thence Southerly along
the Easterly line of said Sublot, 25
inches to a point; thence Westerly
parallel to the northerly line of said
Sublot, 48.5 feet to a point; thence
Northeasterly to a point in line passing through the place of beginning
and parallel to the Northerly line of
said Sublot, which is 42.5 feet Easterly of the place of beginning;
thence Westerly 42.5 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Easement recorded in
Volume 1439, Page 497 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 120-05-041 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Hough Homes, L.P.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 110-30-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
187 in Knight, Richardson & Moore’s
Subdivision of part of Original 100
Acre Lot No. 379 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 24, Page 5
of Cuyahoga County Plat Records
and being 35 feet front on the Easterly side of East 114th Street and
extending back between parallel
lines 100 feet deep as appears by
said plat.

P. P. No. 120-05-041
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
388 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a point on the Westerly line of Lakeview Road 75
02/100 feet Southerly from its intersection with the Southerly line of
Beulah Avenue, N.E.; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of Lakeview, 40 13/100 feet; thence Westerly parallel with the Northerly line
of Moulton Avenue, N.E., 124 09/100
feet;
thence
Northerly
at
right
angles to Beulah Avenue, N.E., 40
feet; thence Easterly parallel with
Moulton Avenue, N.E., 121 14/100
feet to the place of beginning and
being further known as Sublot No.
53 in F.L. Cody’s proposed Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 388.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 120-05-042 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Hough Homes, L.P.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

Parcel 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the
Northerly part of Sublot No. 186 in

P. P. No. 120-05-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.

1840

September 22, 2004
388 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
Lakeview Road at a point 115-15/100
feet Southerly from the intersection
with the Southerly line of Beulah
Avenue,
N.E.;
thence
Southerly
along the Westerly line of Lakeview
Road 40-12/100 feet; thence Westerly parallel with Moulton Street 12703/100 feet; thence Northerly along
a line drawn at right angles to Beulah Street 40 feet thence Easterly
124-09/100 feet to the place of beginning and is further known as Sublot
No. 54 in Frank L. Cody’s Proposed
Subdivision of a part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 388, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 120-13-069 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Hough Homes, L.P.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 120-13-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
34 in The Lake View Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 388 and 389, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 23 of
Maps, Page 10 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 35 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 125 Street,
and extending back between parallel lines 115 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to easement recited on
Deed Volume 1594, Page 230 of
Cuyahoga County Records filed July
14, 1914.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 13. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 14. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 15. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.

September 22, 2004
Section 16. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 1773-04.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request.
An emergency resolution requesting the County Auditor to make
advances during the year 2005 under
Section 321.34 of the Revised Code.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
321.34 of the Revised Code, the County Auditor is requested to draw, and
the County Treasurer is requested to
pay, on draft or drafts made payable
to the Treasury of the City of Cleveland, any money that may be in the
County Treasury from time to time
during the year 2005 and credited to
the account of the City of Cleveland
and lawfully applicable to the purpose of the 2005 fiscal year, during
which year this continuing request
is applicable. The payments are to
be made from time to time under the
schedule set by Cuyahoga County.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a certified
copy of this resolution to the Auditor of Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1774-04.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 5. (Seti Martinez)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
each persons named below to engage
in peddling in the public rights of
way of Ward 5: Seti Martinez.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1777-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 27th Annual Walk for
Disabilities, on October 2, 2004, sponsored by the Disability Services and
Disability
Ministries
of
Catholic
Charities Services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council
consents to and approves the holding
of the 27th Annual Walk for Disabilities sponsored by the Disability
Services and Disability Ministries of
Catholic Charities Services, on October 2, 2004, with the Walk beginning
at OLA/St. Joseph Center parking lot
on Kenilworth, head east on Kenilworth to West 11th Street, turn right
on West 11th to Starkweather, turn
right on Starkweather to West 14th
Street, turn right on West 14th to
Kenilworth, turn right on Kenilworth
to West 11th, turn left onto West 11th
and walk to University Road, turn
right on to University and walk to
West 10th Street, turn right on to
West 10th and walk to stop sign, veer
left on to Professor Avenue — staying on the right hand side of the
street and walk to Jefferson, turn
right on to Jefferson and walk to
Starkweather — cross West 14th
Street to the west side of West 14th,
turn right on to West 14th Street —
cross
Kenilworth
and
return
to
OLA/St. Joseph Center on the left,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety

1841

13
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1778-04.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance amending the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 789-04 passed May 3, 2004
as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development
to enter into an agreement with The
Consortium For Economic Community Development for Hough/Ward 7
for the New Day in Hough Food Distribution Program through the use
of Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 789-04 passed
May 3, 2004 are hereby amended to
read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into agreement with The Consortium For Economic Community Development for
Hough/Ward 7 for the New Day in
Hough Food Distribution Program
through the use of Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with The Consortium For Economic Community Development for
Hough/Ward 7 for the New Day in
Hough Food Distribution Program
for the public purpose of providing
food for low income Cleveland residents through the use of Ward 7
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 789-04 passed
May 3, 2004 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

14
Ord. No. 1779-04.
By Council Member Pierce-Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to amend an existing
contract with the Cleveland Church
of Christ Economic Development,
Inc. for the Community Parenting
Program through the use of Ward 8
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to amend the existing contract
with the Cleveland Church of Christ
Economic Development, Inc. to add
funds for the Community Parenting
Program for the public purpose of
providing parenting support and
education for families residing in
the City of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the additional
funds for the contract shall be in an
amount not to exceed $11,500 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 10 SF
166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1780-04.
By Council Member Pierce-Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning
Commission to enter into an agreement with St. Clair Superior Neighborhood
Development
Association
for
Neighborhood
Planning
and
Business
Redevelopment
Plan
through the use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into an agreement
with St. Clair Superior Neighborhood
Development Association for the
Neighborhood Planning and Business Redevelopment Plan for the
public purpose of decreasing blight
and housing vacancies in the City
of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.

The City Record
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1781-04.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties
to
amend an existing contract with
the Garret Square Development
Corporation
for
the
Glenville
Titans Football Program through
the use of Ward 8 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to amend the existing
contract with the Garret Square
Development Corporation to add
funds for the Glenville Titans Football Program for the public purpose
of providing recreational activities
to Cleveland youth residing in the
City of Cleveland through the use
of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the additional
funds for the contract shall be in an
amount not to exceed $2,500 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 10 SF
166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1842

September 22, 2004
Ord. No. 1782-04.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement with the Murtis H. Taylor
Multi-Services Center for the Glenville Community Support Program
through the use of Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Services Center for the Glenville Community Support Program for the
public purpose of providing behavioral counseling services to youth
residing in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $9,022 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1783-04.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1205-04,
passed June 16, 2004 as it pertains
to authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a
grant agreement with the Thea
Bowman Center for their Mt. Pleasant Community Orchestra program
through the use of Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1205-04, passed June 16,
2004 is hereby amended to reads as
follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $42,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1205-04, passed June 16,
2004 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

September 22, 2004
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1784-04.
By Council Members Reed and
White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement with the New Cleveland Food
Basket for Food Program for Needy
Residents through the use of Wards
2 and 3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the New Cleveland Food Basket for the Food Program for Needy
Residents for the public purpose of
providing food to low income Cleveland residents through the use of
Wards 2 and 3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $32,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1785-04.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the OROC 5K & 1 Mile
Walk, on September 25, 2004, scheduled by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves

The City Record
the holding of the OROC 5K & 1
Mile Walk, scheduled by Hermes
Sports & Events, on September 25,
2004, beginning at Wade Oval &
Jepta, Wade Oval to East Blvd.,
East Blvd., to MLK, MLK to Turn
Around at Ansel Road Ramp, return
same route to finish, provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1786-04.
By Council Members Coats, O’Malley, Cintron, Polensek, Jones, Conwell, Lewis.
An emergency resolution encouraging the United States House of
Representatives and United States
Senate to conduct a review of the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and take such action as may be
necessary to ensure the solvency of
the Pension Benefit Guaranty.
Whereas,
the
Pension
Benefit
Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”) was
created by Congress in 1974 to
encourage the growth of defined
benefit pensions plans, provide timely and uninterrupted payment of
pension benefits, and keep pension
insurance premiums at a minimum;
and
Whereas, the PBGC ensures that
retirees receive pensions that they
have worked for; and
Whereas, defined benefit pension
plans promise to pay a specified
monthly benefit at retirement, commonly based on salary and years on
the job; and
Whereas, the PBGC is not funded
by general tax revenues; and
Whereas, the PBGC collects insurance premiums from employers that
sponsor insured pension plans, earns
money from investments and receives funds from pension plans it
takes over; and
Whereas, according to the PBGC’s
website, the PBGC pays monthly
retirement benefits, up to a guaranteed maximum, to about 459,000
retirees in 3,287 pension plans that
ended; and
Whereas, according to the PBGC’s
website, including those who have
not yet retired and participants in

1843

15
multiemployer
plans
receiving
financial
assistance,
PBGC
is
responsible for the current and
future pensions of about 934,000 people; and
Whereas, 15,000 recipients in the
Greater Cleveland area receive pension payments from the PBGC; and
Whereas, it is estimated that more
than 8,700 future retirees in the
Greater Cleveland area may depend
on the PBGC for future pension payments; and
Whereas, at the end of its current
fiscal year in September, the PBGC
will have made about $3 billion in
pension payments, with more than
$105 billion being distributed among
more than 15,000 recipients in the
Greater Cleveland area; and
Whereas, the PBGC is in danger
of needing a government bailout as
companies backed by the PBGC are
under funded by $400 billion and it
is estimated that $85 billion will be
passed on the PBGC; and
Whereas, a review of the PBGC
and appropriate restructuring is necessary in order to ensure the solvency of the PBGC and, thereby,
enable the PBGC to continue its
function of ensuring that workers
receive
the
pensions
that
they
worked for; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
encourages the United States House
of
Representatives
and
United
States Senate to conduct a review of
the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and take such action as
may be necessary to ensure the solvency of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit a
copy of this resolution to
U.S. Senator Michael DeWine, U.S. Senator
George Voinovich, Congresswoman
Stephanie Tubbs Jones, Congressman Dennis Kucinich, Congressman
Sherrod Brown, and Congressman
Steven LaTourette.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1787-04.
By Council Members Coats, Pierce
Scott, Jones, Conwell, Lewis.
An emergency resolution opposing
the provisional ballot order issued
by Secretary of State J. Kenneth
Blackwell as such order is contrary
to the letter and spirit of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 and
encouraging
Secretary
of
State
Blackwell to issue an order that is
consistent with the Help America
Vote Act of 2002.

16
Whereas, the right to vote is fundamental to democracy; and
Whereas, the Voting Rights Act of
1965 requires uniform standards for
voting qualifications and prohibits
race discrimination in both voter
registration and the voting process;
and
Whereas, the Help America Vote
Act of 2002 was a bipartisan effort
addressing voting concerns, including the casting and counting of provisional ballots, that arose out of
the November 2000 election; and
Whereas, Section 302 of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 governs
provisional voting and states that
an individual shall be permitted to
cast a provisional ballot in an election for a Federal office if an individual declares that he or she is a
registered voter in the jurisdiction
in which the individual desires to
vote and the individual’s name does
not appear on the official list of eligible voters for the polling place or
an election official asserts that the
individual is not eligible to vote;
and
Whereas, when signing the Help
America Vote Act of 2002, President
George W. Bush stated “When people show up at the polls, and their
voting registration is in doubt, they
should not be turned away, but
allowed to cast a provisional ballot
so their vote can be counted if it is
later verified that they are properly
registered”; and
Whereas, Ohio Secretary of State
J. Kenneth Blackwell last week
issued an order to all local election
officials in Ohio indicating that provisional ballots will be issued only
to voters, who, after giving their
address, appear to be in the correct
precinct but do not show up in registration rolls; and
Whereas, the recent order on provisional ballots issued by Ohio Secretary of State Blackwell is contrary
to both the letter and the spirit of
the Help America Vote Act of 2002;
and
Whereas, 7,900 provisional ballots
were cast in the city of Cleveland
in the last presidential election; and
Whereas,
many
precincts
and
polling places changed after the
2000 census and after the last federal election, thereby increasing the
likelihood that more properly registered voters in 2004 than in 2000 will
be confused about their proper voting location; and
Whereas, this Council is concerned that properly registered voters will not be permitted to vote on
November 2, 2004 because of Secretary of State Blackwell’s order; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes
the
provisional
ballot
order
issued by Secretary of State J. Kenneth Blackwell that permits the
issuance of provisional ballots only
to voters who, after giving their
address,
appear
in
the
correct
precinct but do not show up in registration rolls as such order is contrary to the letter and spirit of the
Help America Vote Act of 2002.
Section
2.
That
this
Council
encourages Secretary of State Black-

The City Record
well to issue an order governing
provisional ballots that is consistent
with the Help America Vote Act of
2002.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit a
certified copy of this resolution to
Ohio Secretary of State J. Kenneth
Blackwell,
U.S.
Senator
Michael
DeWine, U.S. Senator George Voinovich,
Congresswoman
Stephanie
Tubbs Jones, Congressman Dennis
Kucinich,
Congressman
Sherrod
Brown, and Congressman Steven
LaTourette.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1788-04.
By Council Member White.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit at
7910 Harvard Avenue, and repealing
Resolution No. 282-04, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to 7910 Harvard
Avenue by Resolution No. 282-04
adopted by the Council on February
23, 2004; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to Amer Alahmad,
DBA Open Pantry, 7910 Harvard
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 0092793 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 282-04, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1844

September 22, 2004
Res. No. 1803-04.
By
Council
Members
Jackson,
Coats, Pierce Scott, Jones, Cintron,
Reed, Zone.
An emergency resolution expressing this Council’s honor that the city
of Cleveland was chosen as the location for the NBC-LEO Summer 2004
Conference and expressing its gratitude to the local businesses and
organizations, speakers, volunteers,
and the Greater Cleveland community that together made the Summer
2004 Conference a success.
Whereas, the National Black Caucus of Local Elected Officials (“NBCLEO”) held its 2004 NBC-LEO Summer Conference in the city of Cleveland, Ohio on August 18-21, 2004; and
Whereas, thanks to the work of
an energetic and dedicated group of
Greater Cleveland Councilmembers
(Team Cleveland), led by the Host
City Coordinator Valarie J. McCall,
City Clerk, Clerk of Council, the
help of local businesses and organizations, and the extraordinary group
of speakers the 2004 Annual Summer
Conference was an outstanding success; and
Whereas, the local businesses and
organizations which enabled this
conference to be one of the finest
NBC-LEO conferences to date included: Anthem Blue Cross & Blue
Shield, Baker & Hostetler, LLP,
Black McDonald’s Owners Association, Calfee, Halter & Griswold LLP,
City Architecture, Inc., Cleveland
City Council, Continental Airlines
(MeetingWorks),
Dominion
East
Ohio Gas Company, Fifth Third
Bank,
FirstEnergy
Corporation,
Greater Cleveland Convention & Visitors Bureau, Greer Consulting Services Unlimited, Industrial Inventory Solutions, Integrated Consulting
Services, Ltd., KeyBank National
Association, Marous Brothers Construction, Medical Mutual of Ohio,
National City Bank, Ozanne Construction
Company,
Inc.,
Pernel
Jones & Sons Funeral Home, Qual
Choice, Richard L. Bowen Architects, Rock-n-Roll Hall of Fame &
Museum, RPM International Inc.,
SBC Ohio (Cleveland), SBC Ohio
(Columbus), SBK-Brooks Investment
Corporation, Shore Bank Cleveland,
Squire, Sanders & Dempsey, L.L.P.,
The Cleveland Browns, The Cleveland Clinic Health System, The
Cleveland Foundation, The Gund
Foundation, The Huntington National
Bank,
The
Ohio
Municipal
League, The Project Group, The
Water
Department,
The
WAVE
107.3, Third Federal Savings & Loan,
Turner Construction Company, US
Bank, and the Xerox Corporation;
and
Whereas, some of the amazing
speakers that lent their time and
knowledge to the event included: Dr.
Charles Modlin, M.D., Dr. Oluranti
Aladesamni, M.D., Dr. Robert Haynie, M.D., Dr. Paula Farrell, Ph.D.,
Ms. Pamela Marshall Holmes, Dr.
Ashwini Sehgal, MD, Ms. RoseMary
Covington, Mr. Ron Barnes, Mr. Kenneth Sislak, Ms. Peggy Price, Ms.
Maribeth Feke, Mr. Eric L. Small,
William E. Matlock, Jr., Ms. Terri
Hamilton Brown, The Honorable
Stephanie Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman, 11th Congressional District,
Dr. Barbara Byrd Bennett, The Honorable Michael R. White, 54th Mayor
of the City of Cleveland, Dr. Maxine
Greer, Mr. Thom Greer, and The

The City Record

September 22, 2004
Honorable Marcia L. Fudge, Mayor,
Warrensville; and
Whereas, the NBC-LEO Summer
2004 Conference attendees were able
to
experience
the
diversity
of
Greater Cleveland and the many cultural activities this area has to
offer; and
Whereas, during the NBC-LEO
Summer 2004 Conference, attendees
of the conference, were provided
with opportunities to tour and visit
a city that offers unique opportunities; and
Whereas, these unique opportunities ensured that the attendees were
able to participate in activities that
are challenging, memorable, and
fun; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council is honored that the city of Cleveland was
chosen as the location for the NBCLEO Summer 2004 Conference and
expresses its gratitude to the local
businesses and organizations, speakers, members of Team Cleveland,
and the Greater Cleveland community that together made the Summer
2004 Conference a success.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones,
former Congressman Louis Stokes,
Marian Tasco, President, NBC-LEO,
Leo Chaney, Jr., President-Elect of
NBC-LEO, all NBC-LEO Board of
Directors, Donald J. Borut, Executive Director, National League of
Cities, Charles Lyons, President,
National League of Cities, Susan
Cave,
Executive
Director,
Ohio
Municipal
League,
Anthony
Williams, First Vice President, and
Jim Hunt, Second Vice President,
National League of Cities.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Council Member
the meeting.

Rybka

entered

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1464-04.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City’s membership in PJM
Interconnection LLC for the provision of electric transmission service
and participation in the wholesale
power market established by PJM,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities.

Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Utilities; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1042-04.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson.
An
ordinance
establishing
a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO)
District along the north and south
sides of Buckeye Road between
East 116th and East 124th Streets
(Map Change No. 2124, Sheet No. 9)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1357-04.
By Council Member Gordon.
An ordinance to change the zoning of a parcel of land at the corner of Broadview Road and West
22nd Street from a One-Family Residential Use District to a Local
Retail Business Use District and
from an “A” Area District to a “C”
Area District (Map Change No. 2133,
Sheet No. 2)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1521-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the zoning of the rear portion of a parcel
located north of an unnamed alley
and south of Holmden Avenue and
east of West 14th Street from a
Semi Industry Use District to a
Multi-Family Residential Use District (Map Change No. 2138 Sheet
No. 6)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1522-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the zoning
of land bounded by University Road,
West 14th Street and Crown Avenue
from a General Industry Use District
to a General Retail Business Use
District (Map Change No. 2134 Sheet
No. 1)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

1845

17
Ord. No. 1523-04.
By Council Member Gordon.
An ordinance to change the zoning of parcels on the north side of
Stanford Avenue near Pearl Road
from a Semi-Industry Use District to
a Two-Family Residential Use District and from a “C” Area District to
a “B” Area District (Map Change No.
2137 Sheet No. 2)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1524-04.
By Council Member Gordon.
An ordinance to change the zoning of two parcels at the northwest
corner of Pearl and Krather Roads
from a Two-Family Residential Use
District to a Parking District (Map
Change No. 2136 Sheet No. 2)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 1577-04.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency resolution declaring that the issuance of a D-5f permit to Poseidon Investment Group
LLC dba East 55th Street Marina is
not inconsistent with the City of
Cleveland’s comprehensive development plan or other economic development goals as established by
Cleveland City Council.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning
Commission,
Finance;
Adoption recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Res. No. 2049-03.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Sweeney, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the necessity and intention to
appropriate property for the public
purpose of street widening at West
117th Street and Western Avenue.
Without objection, Resolution No.
2049-03 was relieved of further consideration of all committees and laid
on the table pursuant to the Rules
of Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Resolution No. 2049-03
Laid on the table.
Journal Correction
The Journal of August 18, 2004,
(City Record Volume 91, page 1603)
is hereby corrected to reflect the
correct title and text to First Reading Emergency Ordinance Referred,
Ordinance No. 1521-04, by striking
the previous title and text and
inserting the following title and
text:

18

The City Record

Ord. No. 1521-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the zoning
of the rear portion of a parcel located north of an unnamed alley and
south of Holmden Avenue and east
of West 14th Street from a Semi
Industry Use District to a MultiFamily
Residential
Use
District
(Map Change No. 2138 Sheet No. 6)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Centerline of an
unnamed alley (14 feet wide) at its
Intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the Westerly line of
Sublot No. 26 of the Nicola & Judson
Allotment, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5, Page 7 of the
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Northerly to a point on the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 26
a distance of approximately 121.16
feet;
Thence
Northeasterly
approximately 50.06 feet to a point on the
Easterly line of Sublot No. 26 of said
Allotment, said point being located
a distance of approximately 126.05
feet north of the Centerline of the
unnamed alley, as aforesaid and
approximately 130.90 feet south of
the Centerline of Holmden Avenue
(50 feet wide);
Thence Southerly along the Easterly line and Southerly prolongation
of said Sublot No. 26 to its Intersection with the Centerline of said
unnamed alley;
Thence Westerly along the Centerline of said unnamed alley to its
Intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the Westerly line of
said Sublot No. 26, and the place of
beginning,
and as outlined and shaded on the
attached map is changed to a MultiFamily Residential Use District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2138, Sheet No. 6 and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

THE CALENDAR

MOTION
By Council Member Johnson, seconded by Council Member Coats and
unanimously carried that the absence of Council Member Patricia
Britt be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:20 p.m. to meet on Monday, September 27, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the
Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

September 22, 2004

The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

September 15, 2004
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, September 15,
2004, at 10:40 a.m. with Mayor Campbell presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Directors Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok,
Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors
Pettus, Thompson, Directors Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Absent: None.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Collette Appolito, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 506-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by Cleveland State
University, Division of Continuing
Education, under the contract for
services necessary to administer a
comprehensive program that provides technology training necessary
to support the staff’s skill development, for the Division of Water,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
authorized by Ordinance No. 1077-02,
passed June 17, 2002, and Board of
Control Resolution No. 677-03, adopted November 5, 2003, is hereby,
approved:
Subcontractor
Work

Percentage

Mincom, Inc.
$22,000.00

1.21%

Corporate College
(Division of
Cuyahoga Community
College)
$200,000.00

11.02%

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 507-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of 3-D Service, Ltd. for an
estimated quantity of labor and
materials necessary to maintain,
repair, replace and test motor control centers, including switchgear,
controls and appurtenances (items
1.003, 1.004, 1.014-1.016, 1.018, 1.021,
1.023 and 6.000-6.004), for the Divi-

1846

sion of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two years
beginning with the later of the date
of execution of a contract or receipt
of a notice to proceed, received on
the 20th day of February, 2004, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 2355-01, passed February 11,
2002, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
Two Hundred Seventy Six Thousand
Five
Hundred
Fifty
Dollars
($276,550.00) (1%, 10 Days), is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 148095
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 508-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Rexel Midland for an estimated quantity of labor and materials necessary to maintain, repair,
replace and test motor control centers, including switchgear, controls
and appurtenances (items 2.001-2.048,
2.049-IEC 16mm Pilot Devices, IP65,
2.049-NEMA indicating lights and accessories, 18 & 22.5mm, 2.050-Stackable Tower Lights, 2.050-NEMA indicating
lights
and
accessories,
30.5mm, 2.051-Speed Switches, 2.051Rotating Cam Limit Switches, 2.052NEMA 22.5mm Pilot Devices, 2.052Renewal
Parts,
2.053-Zero-Force
Touch Buttons, 2.053-NEMA Pump
Panels,
2.054-Acoustic
Signaling
Products, 2.054-IEC Pump Panels,
2.055-IEC 30.5mm Pilot Devices Zone,
2.055 Definite Purpose Contactors,
2.056-22mm Pilot Devices, 2.056-Mini
Pump Panels, 2.065-2.231, 2.232-Copper Barrel WFI Proximity, 2.232-AC
WorldProx Inductive Proximity and
2.233-3.371),
for
the
Division
of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years beginning with the later of the date of
execution of a contract or receipt of
a notice to proceed, received on the
20th day of February, 2004, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
2355-01, passed February 11, 2002,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000.00)
(0%, 30 Days), is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:

September 22, 2004
Requisition No. 148117
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 509-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid, of Professional Electric
Products Co. for an estimated quantity of labor and materials necessary to maintain, repair, replace and
test motor control centers, including
switchgear, controls and appurtenances (items 3.001-3.055), for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
years beginning with the later of
the date of execution of a contract
or receipt of a notice to proceed,
received on the 20th day of February, 2004, pursuant to the authority
of Ordinance No. 2355-01, passed February 11, 2002, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Two Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($200,000.00) (0%, Net 30
Days), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Public
Utilities
is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 148118
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 510-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Southern Electric Supply
D.B.A. Rexel Inc. for an estimated
quantity of labor and materials necessary to maintain, repair, replace
and
test
motor
control
centers,
including switchgear, controls and
appurtenances
(items
4.001-4.009,
4.01, 4.011-4.019, 4.02, 4.021-4.043, 4.044
Indicating Blanks Class Number:
XVA, 4.044 Twin Line Motor, Cables
and Accessories Class Number: PC57,
4.045-Recitivar Drives and Spare
Parts
Class
Number:
DR,
4.045-

The City Record
SERIPLEXS@ Products Class Number: SPXI, 4.046-Identification Products
Class
Number:
ID,
4.046SERIPLEX@ Software & Cables
Class Number: SPX2, 4.047, 4.048 and
7.000-7.004),
for
the
Division
of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years beginning with the later of the date of
execution of a contract or receipt of
a notice to proceed, received on the
20th day of February, 2004, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
2355-01, passed February 11, 2002,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to Three
Hundred One Thousand Seven Hundred Nine Dollars and 28 Cents
($301,709.28) (2% 10th, Net 30 Days);
(2% Net 30, For Items 4.037-4.042
Only) is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 148022
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 511-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on January 16, 2004
for an estimated quantity of replacement parts and equipment necessary
for the operation of the SCADA system (items 1.001-1.049, 3.017, 3.025,
5.001-5.011 and 5.013-5.015) for the
Divisions of Water and Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, pursuant to the authority
of Ordinance No. 1954-01, passed
December 3, 2001, are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 512-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Rexel Midland for an estimated quantity of replacement parts
and equipment necessary for the
operation of the SCADA system
(items 2.001-2.056), for the Divisions
of Water and Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years
beginning with the later of the date
of execution of a contract or receipt
of a notice to proceed, received on
the 16th day of January, 2004, pur-

1847

19
suant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1954-01, passed December 3, 2001,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000.00)
(0% 30 Days), is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 148042
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 513-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the condititional bid of RFL Electronics Inc., except for such terms
and conditions as are not acceptable
to the Director of Law, for an estimated quantity of replacement parts
and equipment necessary for the
operation of the SCADA system
(items 3.001-3.016, 3.018-3.024, 3.0263.048), for the Divisions of Water
and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period
of two (2) years beginning with the
later of the date of execution of a
contract or receipt of a notice to proceed, received on the 16th day of
January,
2004,
pursuant
to
the
authority of Ordinance No. 1954-01,
passed December 3, 2001, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Fifty Nine Thousand Three Hundred Ninety Four
Dollars ($59,394.00) (0%), is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 153135
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

20
Resolution No. 514-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Professional Electric
Products Co. for an estimated quantity of replacement parts and equipment necessary for the operation of
the SCADA system (items 4.0014.010), for the Divisions of Water
and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period
of two (2) years beginning with the
later of the date of execution of a
contract or receipt of a notice to proceed, received on the 16th day of
January,
2004,
pursuant
to
the
authority of Ordinance No. 1954-01,
passed December 3, 2001, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Two Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($200,000.00) (0%
Net 30), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 148044
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 515-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of HSQ Technology, A Corporation for an estimated quantity
of replacement parts and equipment
necessary for the operation of the
SCADA system (items 7.001-7.010,
7.07, 7.012-7.048, 7.061-7.072), for the
Divisions of Water and Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two (2)
years beginning with the later of
the date of execution of a contract
or receipt of a notice to proceed,
received on the 16th day of January,
2004, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1954-01, passed December 3, 2001, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity, would
amount to Two Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($200,000.00) (2%, 15 Days)
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 148047
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the

The City Record
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 516-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Hach Company for an
estimated quantity of replacement
parts and equipment necessary for
the operation of the SCADA system
(items 9.001-9.041), for the Divisions
of Water and Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years
beginning with the later of the date
of execution of a contract or receipt
of a notice to proceed, received on
the l6th day of January, 2004, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1954-01, passed December 3, 2001,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to Seventy
Five Thousand Dollars ($75,000.00)
(Net 30), is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is
requested to enter into a requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 148049
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 517-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Computational Systems Incorporated, except for
such terms and conditions as are not
acceptable to the Director of Law,
for an estimated quantity of replacement parts and equipment necessary
for the operation of the SCADA system (items 10.001 - 10.046), for the
Divisions of Water and Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two (2)
years beginning with the later of
the date of execution of a contract
or receipt of a notice to proceed,
received on the 16th day of January,
2004, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1954-01, passed December 3, 2001, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Seventy Five Thousand
Dollars ($75,000.00), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,

1848

September 22, 2004
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 148069
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 518-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Invensys Systems, Inc., except for such terms and
conditions as are not acceptable to
the Director of Law, for an estimated quantity of replacement parts
and equipment necessary for the
operation of the SCADA system
(items 8.001-8.036, 8.049-8.125), for the
Divisions of Water and Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two (2)
years beginning with the later of
the date of execution of a contract
or receipt of a notice to proceed,
received on the 16th day of January,
2004, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1954-01, passed December 3, 2001, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000.00) (0%, Net
30), is affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such commodities, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 153140
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Fifty
Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 519-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Southern Electric Supply
d.b.a. Rexel Inc. for an estimated
quantity of replacement parts and
equipment necessary for the opera-

September 22, 2004
tion of the SCADA system (items
6.001-6.026), for the Divisions of
Water and Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two (2) years beginning
with the later of the date of execution of a contract or receipt of a
notice to proceed, received on the
16th day of January, 2004, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1954-01, passed December 3, 2001,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000.00)
(2% 10th, Net 30 Days) is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 148046
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Twenty Five
Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 520-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of Rexel Midland for an estimated quantity of SCADA system
computer
software,
software
upgrades and support software and
software
implementation
(items
2.001 Zone Control 9000, 2.002 VersaView CE 700, 2.003 VersaView CE
1000, 2.004 VersaView CE 1250, 2.005
VersaView CE 1500, 2.006 ControlLogix,
2.007
ProcessLogix,
2.008
MicroLogix 1000, 2.009 MicroLogix
1500, 2.010 MicroLogix 1200, 2.011
PanelView 1400, 2.012 Mobileview
Enhanced PanelView, 2.013 Zone
Control 9000, 2.014 VersaView CE
700, 2.015 VersaView CE 1000, 2.016
VersaView CE 1250, 2.017 VersaView
CE 1500, 2.018 ControlLogix, 2.019
PanelView 1400,
2.020 Mobileview
Enhanced PanelView, 2.021 PanelView Plus 400 Mono, 2.022 PanelView Plus 600 Mono, 2.023 PanelView Plus 600, 2.024 Panel-View
Plus 700, 2.001 PanelView Plus 1000,
2.002 PanelView Plus 1250, 2.003
PanelView Plus 1500, 2.004 RediPanel,
Detaliner,
Inview,
DTAM
Plus), 2.005 PanelView Software,
2.006 Drive Tools & Drive Tools 32
Software, 2.007 Drive Executive,
2.008
Drive
Applications
Software/Commercial/Light
Industrial, 2.009 SLC Motion Software,
2.010 GML Motion Software, 2.011
Ultra MASTER Motion software,
2.012 Ultra MASTER Motion software, 2.013 Software (30G5), 2.014
System Engineering Support: Technician-Straight Time, 2.015 System
Engineering
Support:
TechnicianOvertime, 2.016 System Engineering
Support: Technician-Premium Time,

The City Record
2.017 System Engineering Support:
Technician-Emergency Time, 2.019
Power Monitor, 2.020 RS Logix5000),
for the Divisions of Water and
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
two (2) years beginning with the
later of the date of execution of a
contract or receipt of a notice to proceed, received on the 16th day of
January,
2004,
pursuant
to
the
authority of Ordinance No. 1953-01,
passed December 3, 2001 and Ordinance No. 1951-01, passed April 22,
2002, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
Two Hundred Twenty Nine Thousand Seven Hundred Fourteen Dollars ($229,714.00) (0% 30 Days), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 148089
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 521-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Professional Electric
Products Co. for an estimated quantity of SCADA system computer software, software upgrades and support software and software implementation (items 3.003-3.005), for the
Divisions of Water and Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two (2)
years beginning with the later of
the date of execution of a contract
or receipt of a notice to proceed,
received on the 16th day of January,
2004, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1953-01, passed December 3, 2001 and Ordinance No. 195101, passed April 22, 2002, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Two Hundred
Twenty Five Thousand Six Hundred
Eighty Dollars ($225,680.00) (0%
Net, 30 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 148090
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,

1849

21
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 522-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Southern Electric Supply
D.B.A. Rexel Inc. for an estimated
quantity of SCADA system computer software, software upgrades and
support
software
and
software
implementation (items 4.011-4.022),
for the Divisions of Water and
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
two (2) years beginning with the
later of the date of execution of a
contract or receipt of a notice to proceed, received on the 16th day of
January,
2004,
pursuant
to
the
authority of Ordinance No. 1953-01,
passed December 3, 2001 and Ordinance No. 1951-01, passed April 22,
2002, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
Three Hundred Thirty Thousand Six
Hundred Thirty Nine Dollars and 20
Cents ($330,639.20) (2% 10th, Net 30
Days), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Public
Utilities
is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 148088
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 523-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of HSQ Technology, A Corporation for an estimated quantity
of SCADA system computer software, software upgrades and support software and software implementation (item 5), for the Divisions
of Water and Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years
beginning with the later of the date
of execution of a contract or receipt
of a notice to proceed, received on
the 16th day of January, 2004, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1953-01, passed December 3, 2001
and Ordinance No. 1951-01, passed
April 22, 2002, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would

22
amount to Four Hundred Seventy
Thousand One Hundred Seventy Dollars ($470,170.00) (2%, 15 Days), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 148091
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 524-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Invensys Systems, Inc., except for such terms and
conditions as are not acceptable to
the Director of Law, for an estimated quantity of SCADA system
computer
software,
software
upgrades and support software and
software implementation (item 6),
for the Divisions of Water and
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
two (2) years beginning with the
later of the date of execution of a
contract or receipt of a notice to proceed, received on the 16th day of
January,
2004,
pursuant
to
the
authority of Ordinance No. 1953-01,
passed December 3, 2001 and Ordinance No. 1951-01, passed April 22,
2002, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
Five Hundred Ninety Eight Thousand Five Hundred Forty One Dollars and 93 Cents ($598,541.93) (0%,
Net 30 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 131291
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Thirty
Thousand Dollars ($30,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

The City Record
Resolution No. 525-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Computational Systems, Inc., except for such
terms and conditions as are not
acceptable to the Director of Law,
for an estimated quantity of SCADA
system computer software, software
upgrades and support software and
software
implementation
(items
8.001-8.004,
8.006-8.010,
8.012-8.027,
8.030-8.050, 8.052-8.057), for the Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two (2)
years beginning with the later of
the date of execution of a contract
or receipt of a notice to proceed,
received on the 16th day of January,
2004, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1953-01, passed December 3, 2001 and Ordinance No. 195101, passed April 22, 2002, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Three Hundred
Ninety Five Thousand One Hundred
Sixty Five Dollars ($395,165.00), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 148092
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Twenty Five
Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 526-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on January 16, 2004
for an estimated quantity of SCADA
system computer software, software
upgrades and support software and
software implementation (items 1
and 4.001-4.010) for the Divisions of
Water and Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1953-01, passed December 3, 2001
and Ordinance No. 1951-01, passed
April 22, 2002, are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 527-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Petroleum Traders Corporation for an estimated quantity
of low sulfur #2 dyed diesel fuel oil,

1850

September 22, 2004
all items, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
June 23, 2004, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 248-04,
passed May 3, 2004 on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Four Hundred Eighty Six
Thousand Two Hundred Twenty
and
no/100
Dollars
($486,220.00)
(0%, 30 Days) is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter
into requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 153197
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Fifty
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($50,000.00),
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimate quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 528-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland the
bid of American Fleet Services for
an estimated quantity of labor and
materials necessary to repair interior and exterior bodies of motor vehicles, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two (2)
years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
the 30th day of June 2004, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
245-04, passed May 3, 2004 on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Four Hundred
Eighty Three Thousand Four Hundred Eighty and no/100 Dollars
($483,480.00), (2%, 45 Days) is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby
requested to enter into requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 153200
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Fifty
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($50,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall further provide that the Contractor will
furnish the remainder of the requirement for such commodities, whether
more or less than said estimated
quantity, as may be ordered under
subsequent requisitions separately
certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pet-

September 22, 2004
tus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 529-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Professional Electric
Products Company for an estimated
quantity
of
wood
poles
and
crossarms item nos. 1 thru 34, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on May
27, 2004, pursuant to the authority of
Section 129.26 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to One Million Three Hundred Eighty Three
Thousand Two Hundred Seventy
Eight
and
50/100
Dollars
($1,383,278.50) (0%, Net 30 Days), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 153198
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($100,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 530-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on May 27, 2004, for
Wood Poles and Crossarms, item
nos. 35 thru 44, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, pursuant to the
authority of Section 129.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, be and the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 531-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on July 22, 2004, for
public improvement of Rehabilitating and Replacing the Superior
Avenue Area Sewer System (Relining — Re-bid), all items, for the

The City Record
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 644-03, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on July 16,
2003, be and the same are hereby
rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 532-04.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on February 20,
2004 for an estimated quantity of
labor and materials necessary to
maintain, repair, replace and test
motor
control
centers,
including
switchgear, controls and appurtenances (items 1.001, 1.002, 1.005-1.013,
1.017, 1.019, 1.020, 1.022, 1.024-1.027)
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 235501, passed February 11, 2002, are
hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 533-04.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Government Acquisitions,
Incorporated for an estimated quantity of computer related equipment,
all items needed to effect the public
improvement of 205 St. Clair Avenue,
for the Department of Public Service, for the period of two (2) years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
29th day of June, 2004, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 69-04,
passed January 12, 2004, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Eighty Six Thousand, Nine Hundred, Fifty Eight
Dollars ($86,958.00) (Net), is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for such
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 126914
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of Eighty Six
Thousand,
Nine
Hundred
Fifty
Eight Dollars ($86,958.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirements for such goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pet-

1851

23
tus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 534-04.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Kurtz Brothers, Inc. for an estimated quantity of disposal of construction and demolition debris, item
1, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of
Public Service, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
August 6, 2004, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 577-04
passed April 26, 2004, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to approximately Seventy Four Thousand Seven Hundred
and no/100 Dollars ($74,700.00), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 130483
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twelve
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($12,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 535-04.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on May 27, 2004 for office
paper recycling for the Division of
Waste
Collection
and
Disposal,
Department of Public Service pursuant to the authority of Codified
Ordinance Section 181.18 passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on May 20, 1991, be and the same
are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 536-04.
By Director Watson.
Be it resolved by the Board of the
City of Cleveland that pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 373-03,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on May 12, 2003, The Partnership For A Safer Cleveland is

The City Record

24
hereby selected upon the nomination
of the Director of Public Safety, as
the professional services provider to
be employed by contract for the purpose of conducting a Community
Reentry Strategy Project for the
Department of Public Safety.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Director of Public Safety is hereby requested to enter into
a written contract with The Partnership For A Safer Cleveland based
upon its proposal dated February 6,
2004, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide for furnishing of professional services as described in such
proposal and shall contain additional terms and conditions the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest. The
fee for the services to be rendered
under the contract authorized shall
not exceed $45,900.00.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 537-04.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 107-16-133 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1115-2000
passed October 9, 2000, authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Curly Mae Jelks has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to the authorization
of Ordinance No. 1115-2000 passed
October 9, 2000, by the Cleveland
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Curly Mae Jelks
for the sale and development of
Permanent Parcel No. 107-16-133, as
described in said Ordinance in
accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner
as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$400.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Ciaccia, Mok, Ricchiuto, Carroll, Acting Directors Pettus,
Thompson,
Directors
Rush,
Routen, Huth, Fumich, Taylor and
Acting Director Vilkas.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2004
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 04-206: 2118 Broadview
Road (Ward 15)
Hikmat Dakdouk, owner, appeals
to use the 10' established front yard
setback on the east side of Broadview Road to provide accessory
parking spaces for an existing retail
sales store, situated on a 44' x 140'
corner lot in a Local Retail Business
District on the southeast corner of
Broadview Road and Mayview Avenue at 2118 Broadview Road; contrary to Section 357.14(a)(1) of the
Yards and Courts Requirements,
that prohibits the parking of motor
vehicles in the established front
yard setback; and subject to the limitations for Off-Street Parking and
Loading, no driveway shall be located less than 15' between the point
of tangency of the driveway apron
radius and the outside crosswalk
line at the intersection, when such
driveway is on the approach side of
an intersection; and the existing driveway is a 40' width contrary to a
30' maximum width, measured at
right angles to the angle of the driveway entrance, as stated in Sections 349.07(c)(2) and (3) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 04-210: Appeal of Hikmat Dakdok — 2118 Broadview
Road (Ward 15)
Hikmat Dakdok appeals under
Section 505.12(d) from an order
issued by the Director of Public
Service on August 18, 2004 to meet

1852

September 22, 2004
the requirements of the Sidewalk
Citation #14-04-C dated March 31,
2004 for failure to comply in accordance with the order of the Board
of Sidewalk Appeals dated May 13,
2004 and to respond to the request
that appellant submit a corrected
plan for the plan that was rejected
by the Division of Traffic Engineering and returned to him on
August 9, 2004.
Calendar No. 04-214: Appeal of Lakewood Hospital Assoc. — 12409
Lorain Avenue (Ward 19)
Lakewood
Hospital
Association
c/o David Cross, agent, appeals
under authority of Section 329.02(d)
from a Notice of Violation issued by
the Department of Building and
Housing for failure to provide that
accessory off-street parking spaces
and maneuvering areas are properly graded for drainage so that all
water is drained within the lot providing such parking spaces and that
it is required to be surfaced with
concrete, asphaltic concrete, asphalt
or similar surfacing material as
stated in Section 349.07(a) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 04-217: 3193 West 52nd
Street (Ward 14)
Ijaz Qureshi, owner, appeals to
install approximately 90 l/f of 4'
high chain link fence in the front
yard of an existing two family
dwelling situated on 40' x 125' parcel in a Two-Family District on the
east side of West 52nd Street at 3193
West 52nd Street; contrary to the
Fence Regulations, where ornamental fence material and not chain
link fence is required in the front
yard of property in a Residence
District,
as
stated
in
Section
358.04(c)(1) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 04-140: Appeal of Mahad Mohamed — Hack License
Revocation
Mahad Mohamed appeals under
Section 76-6 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland from the revocation of a City of Cleveland Hack
License by the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses, pursuant
to the facts assembled from the
details of an incident at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport on
April 25, 2004. (Motion for Reconsideration Granted 8-30-04)
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, September 20, 2004, the following appeals
were heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 04-208: 5001 Bridge Avenue
Victor and Sonia Sanchez appealed to erect a 12' x 15' one-story
open deck, a second story porch
13'6" high, to the rear of a two-

September 22, 2004
story, two family dwelling in a TwoFamily District; conditioned upon no
more than an 8' projection.
Calendar No. 04-187: 4120 Broadway
Avenue
William and Patricia Sharp appealed to change from an office and
storage to a used auto sales and
repair a one-story concrete block
building in a Semi-Industry District;
subject to a revised plan.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 04-203: 3621 East 54th
Street
Chana
Newman
appealed
to
change an existing garage to one
dwelling unit and to convert an
existing two family dwelling located in front of the garage to one
dwelling unit in a Two-Family District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 04-202: 1215 East 82nd
Street postponed to October 18,
2004.
Calendar No. 04-205: 3500 Woodland
Avenue postponed to October 18,
2004.
Calendar No. 04-189: 6500 Harvard
Avenue postponed to October 25,
2004.
Calendar No. 04-204: 2927 Bridge
Avenue postponed to October 25,
2004.
In Executive Session on September 20, 2004, the following appeals
heard by the Board on September 13,
2004 were adopted or approved.

The City Record

25

The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 04-196: 4603-05 West
130th Street
Nick
Fedorchuk
appealed
to
change use from a barber shop to a
machine shop in the first floor of a
mixed use building in a General
Retail Business District.
In Executive Session on September 13, 2004, the following appeal
heard by the Board on July 26, 2004
was adopted and approved:
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 04-164: 11317 Union
Avenue
Jeremiah Baptist Church appealed
to erect a one-story addition to the
rear of an existing church in a General Retail Business District; subject
to a revised plan and Parking Lease
Agreement.
In Executive Session on September 20, 2004, the following appeal
heard by the Board on July 19, 2004
was adopted and approved:
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 04-62: 9515 Woodland
Avenue
M. Weingold & Company, owner,
and Independence Excavating, lessee, appealed to do rock crushing on
a portion of an acreage parcel in a
General Industry District; subject to
conditions.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS

The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 04-200: 1598 East 85th
Street
Louise Jennings appealed to install a 4' high chain link fence a
the front and along the north side
of as single family dwelling house
in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 04-201: 7925 Elton Avenue
Ernest Shinault appealed to install 379 s/f of 4' high chain link
fence with 4 gates to enclose an
irregular shaped corner lot and a
single family dwelling in a TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 04-125: 14300 Miles Avenue
Michael
Sudman,
owner,
and
Cathy Eaton, Tenant, appealed to
change use from an auto repair
garage to auto wrecking and auto
parts sales a one-story masonry
building on an acreage parcel in a
Semi-Industry District; subject to
conditions.
Calendar No. 04-131: 271 East 156th
Street
Doreen
Mitchell
appealed
to
change use from a store to a day
care the first floor and basement of
a two-story brick building in a Local
Retail Business District.

AND BUILDING APPEALS
NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, September 29, 2004
1:30 P.M.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a Public Hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, September 29, 2004, at
1:30 p.m., to consider the following
ordinance now pending in the Council:

1853

Ord. No. 1525-04.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land along the west side
of West 130th Street from Sprecher
Avenue north to Crossburn Avenue
from a General Retail Business Use
District to a Local Retail Business
Use District (Map Change No. 2135,
Sheet No. 13)
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
September 15, 2004 and September 22, 2004

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
NO BIDS

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1463-04.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution to adopt
and declare a Tax Budget for the
City of Cleveland for the year 2005
and submit it to the County Budget
Commission as required by State
Law, Chapter 5705 of the Revised
Code.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council, under
the provisions of Chapter 5705 of the
Revised Code, after public hearings
as required by law, does adopt the
statements of the year 2005 requirements for the several funds of the
City of Cleveland as being the budget required by state law to be submitted to the County Budget Commission, which requirements are contained in File No. 1463-04-A.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to certify a copy of
the resolution to the County Auditor
of Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 13, 2004.
Effective September 13, 2004.

Res. No. 1689-04.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution declaring the need for greater homeless
funding and health care and related
supportive services by the United
States government; the need for collaboration between the Veterans
Administration and community organizations; the need for affordable
housing development and community development; and the need for job
training and technical assistance
that will assist in transitioning
homeless veterans.

26
Whereas, America’s veterans deserve our gratitude for their service
and our assistance: and
Whereas, veterans are twice as
likely to be among the chronically
homeless; and
Whereas, one study revealed that
eighty-one percent (81%) of America’s homeless veterans suffer from
serious
psychiatric
or
substance
abuse disorders and thirty-three percent (33%) suffer from both; and
Whereas, this study also revealed
that forty-six percent (46%) of homeless veterans assessed in 2001 were
African Americans, in contrast to
eleven percent (11%) in the general
veterans population, indicating that
African American veterans are over
four (4) times more likely to be
homeless than other veterans; and
Whereas, America’s homeless veterans face many challenges; and
Whereas, veterans are disproportionately represented among homeless men and existing programs and
resources are inadequate; and
Whereas, the National Survey of
Homeless
Service
Providers
and
Clients reports that fifty-seven percent (57%) of homeless veterans
have sought needed health care from
the Veterans Administration; and
Whereas, The Veterans Administration is shifting from inpatient to
outpatient services and such shift
does not appear to be in the best
interests of America’s homeless veterans; and
Whereas,
minority
community
based providers may welcome the
opportunity to provide services to
homeless veterans, but there is a
need for collaboration between these
providers and the Veterans Administration; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby declares the need for greater
homeless funding and health care
and related supportive services by
the United States government; the
need for collaboration between the
Veterans Administration and community organizations; the need for
affordable housing development and
community development; and the
need for job training and technical
assistance that will assist in transitioning homeless veterans.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit a
copy of this resolution to President
George
W.
Bush,
U.S.
Senator
Michael
DeWine,
U.S.
Senator
George Voinovich, Congresswoman
Stephanie Tubbs Jones, Congressman Dennis Kucinich, Congressman
Sherrod Brown, Congressman Steven
LaTourette, the Executive Director
and Board of the National League of
Cities, the Executive Director and
Board of the National Black Caucus
of Local Elected Officials, and the
Executive Director of the Ohio
Municipal League.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 13, 2004.
Effective September 15, 2004.

The City Record
Res. No. 1690-04.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 2886
Woodhill Road, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from 2886 Woodhill Rose, Inc., 2886 Woodhilll Road,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
9116630 to Ya Corp, Inc., DBA Nikkis
Market, 2886 Woodhill Road, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 9804492;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from 2886 Woodhill
Rose, Inc., 2886 Woodhilll Road, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 9116630 to
Ya Corp, Inc., DBA Nikkis Market,
2886 Woodhill Road, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent
Number
9804492;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

1854

September 22, 2004
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 13, 2004.
Effective September 15, 2004.

Res. No. 1691-04.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 3218 East 135th Street, and
repealing Resolution No. 1218-04,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Permit to 3218 East 135th
Street by Resolution No. 1218-04
adopted by the Council on June 14,
2004; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to 3218 Sophie,
Inc., DBA Eastside Groceries, 3218
East 135th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 8871284 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1218-04, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 13, 2004.
Effective September 15, 2004.

Res. No. 1692-04.
By Council Members Polensek,
Brady, Britt, White, Gordon, Westbrook,
Coats,
O’Malley,
Jackson,
Cimperman, Cintron, Conwell, Dolan,
Johnson, Jones, Lewis, Reed, Rybka
and Sweeney.
An emergency resolution opposing
the intended relocation of the Glidden Company from the City of Cleveland to Strongsville and opposing
the Glidden Company’s application
to the State of Ohio for a personal
property tax exemption.
Whereas, it has come to this
Council’s attention that the Glidden
Company intends to relocate its
operations from the City of Cleveland to property located in the City
of Strongsville; and
Whereas, the Glidden Company’s
intended relocation will cause Cleve-

September 22, 2004
land to lose the Company’s corporate
headquarters and its 415 employees;
and
Whereas, the Glidden Company
has applied for a personal property
tax exemption from the State of
Ohio; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby opposes the intended relocation
of the Glidden Company from the
City of Cleveland to Strongsville
and opposes the Glidden Company’s
application to the State of Ohio for
a personal property tax exemption.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby
directed to transmit copies of this resolution to the Thomas P. Perciak,
Mayor of Strongsville, Eugene P. Magocky, Strongsville Director of Economic Development, Donald C. Batke,
Strongsville
Director
of
Finance,
Kenneth A. Kraus, Strongsville Law
Director, and Bruce Johnson, Director
of Development, State of Ohio.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 13, 2004.
Effective September 15, 2004.

Res. No. 1693-04.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency resolution opposing
an increase in truck size and weight
on United States highways and supporting an increased use of freight
railroad transportation as an effective solution to highway congestion
and poor air quality and to improve
quality of life.
Whereas, trucking lobbyists want
federal law to allow triple-trailer
trucks over 100 feet long and weighing up to 135,000 pounds to be able
to
drive
on
federal
highways
throughout the country; and
Whereas, bigger, heavier trucks
are harder to steer and more likely
to suffer brake failure and runaway
crashes; the longer the truck, the
greater the chance of rollover and
jackknifing; at highway speeds, the
back end of a triple trailer truck
can swing back and forth, endangering traffic in adjoining lanes;
and in an emergency, truck drivers
have virtually no control over a
third trailer; and
Whereas, bigger, longer trucks,
combined with the U.S.’s increasing
amount of freight that must be
transported, will worsen an already
severe national problem with deteriorating, crowded highways and
will exacerbate the nation’s bridge
problem – 30% of the nation’s
bridges are structurally deficient or
functionally obsolete; and
Whereas, GO21 is a non-profit,
public interest organization whose
goals are to reduce traffic congestion, motor vehicle emissions and
costly wear and tear on our nation’s
highways
by
counteracting
the
effort to allow triple-trailer trucks

The City Record
and promoting increased use of
freight rail transportation; and
Whereas, how our nation’s freight
is transported directly impacts our
quality of life – the strength of our
economy and the number of available jobs; the safety of our highways; the amount of traffic congestion we encounter; the prices we pay
for
everything
from
household
goods to electricity; the air we
breathe; and the efficient use of our
tax dollars; and
Whereas, rail intermodal is the
fastest growing segment of the U.S.
freight railroad industry, combining
the long haul efficiency of rail with
the
door-to-door
convenience
of
trucks; and
Whereas, one intermodal train can
carry 280 truck trailers which is the
equivalent of more than 1000 automobiles in terms of highway congestions; and
Whereas, rail moves a ton of
freight more than 400 miles on just
one gallon of fuel, thus reducing
harmful air pollutants by 6 to 12
times; and
Whereas, rail is the “preferred
mode” for hauling hazardous materials because of fewer spills and
accidents; and
Whereas, according to the American Association of State Highway
and Transportation Officials, rail
investments are an efficient use of
tax dollars, providing as much as a
12 to 1 return on investment; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby opposes an increase in truck size
and weight on United States highways and supports an increased use
of freight railroad transportation as
an effective solution to highway
congestion and poor air quality and
to improve quality of life.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to the appropriate
members of Ohio’s Congressional
delegation.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 13, 2004.
Effective September 15, 2004.

Ord. No. 1462-04.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to apply
for and accept funds from the United States of America and the State
of Ohio to reimburse Cleveland for
costs incurred by the various City
departments as a result of the
severe weather and storm damages
in our area during the period of May
16 to June 21, 2004.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

1855

27
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to apply for
and accept funds from the United
States of America, acting through
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the State of Ohio,
acting through the Ohio Emergency
Management Agency, to reimburse
Cleveland for costs incurred by the
various departments in City government as a result of the severe
weather and storm damages in our
area during the period of May 16 to
June 21, 2004.
The Director of
Finance is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
this ordinance, and the funds are
appropriated for the purpose of
reimbursing the various City departments for costs incurred as a result
of the severe weather and storm
damages.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 13, 2004.
Effective September 15, 2004.

Ord. No. 1669-04.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the U.S. Attorney General’s Office
for funding for communications and
intelligence equipment; and authorizing the director to enter into a
contract with Nextel to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the amount of
$28,000, from the U.S. Attorney General’s Office to provide funding for
communications
and
intelligence
equipment; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the granting
document for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the granting document for the grant, File No. 166904-A, made a part of this ordinance
as if fully rewritten, is approved in
all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with Nextel to implement the grant as
described in the file.

28
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 13, 2004.
Effective September 15, 2004.

Ord. No. 1687-04.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with InterAct Cleveland
for the InterAct Hunger Center program in order to carry out the public purpose of providing meals to
disadvantaged residents of the City
of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with InterAct Cleveland for
the InterAct Hunger Center program
in order to carry out the public purpose of providing meals to disadvantaged residents of the City of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 13, 2004.
Effective September 15, 2004.

Ord. No. 1688-04.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning
Commission to enter into a grant
agreement with ArtSpace/Cleveland
for a Live/Work Space Feasibility
Study in order to carry out the public purpose of promoting commercial
and residential development through
the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with ArtSpace/Cleveland for a
Live/Work Space Feasibility Study
in order to carry out the public purpose of promoting commercial and
residential development through the
use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $6,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 13, 2004.
Effective September 15, 2004.

Ord. No. 1694-04.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Community United Head Start and
Day Care to stretch one banner in
front of 4600 Carnegie, for the period from September 21, 2004 to October 20, 2004, inclusive, publicizing a
recruitment drive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Department
of Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to issue a permit to Community United Head Start and Day
Care to install, maintain and remove
one banner in front of 4600 Carnegie,
for the period from September 21, 2004
to October 20, 2004, inclusive. Said
banner shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service, in consultation with the Director of Public
Safety, as to type, method of affixing
and location so as not to interfere
with any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner will
be hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial
advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed promptly upon
the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 13, 2004.
Effective September 15, 2004.

1856

September 22, 2004
Ord. No. 1695-04.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
John Adams Core Group to hang
flags on the eastside and westside
of the island; pole numbers listed
below, for the period from September 14, 2004 to October 13, 2004,
inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the John Adams
Core Group to install, maintain and
remove flags from the eastside of
the island, Pole #’s 539562, 539568,
539170, 539573, 539574, 539575, 539578,
539580, 539584; and the westside of
the islands, Pole #’s 539562, 539563,
539567, 513736, 513735, 513734, 539572,
210420, 210404, 342885, 514273, 337499,
806110, 806111, 806977, 108828, for the
period from September 14, 2004 to
October 13, 2004, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a banner will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 13, 2004.
Effective September 15, 2004.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, September 20, 2004
11:00 a.m.
Employment, Affirmative Action &
Training Committee: Cancelled.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present in
Finance: Jackson, Chair; Sweeney
Vice Chair; Brady, Coats, Gordon,
Reed, Westbrook, White, O’Malley,
Pierce Scott. Authorized Absence:
Britt.

September 22, 2004

The City Record

29

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Planning — Business Redevelopment Plan — Ward 8
NEF (O 1780-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842

Annual Reports
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2003
— State Auditor (F 1792-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

Appropriations
W. 117th St. & Western Ave. — intention to appropriate — street widening
(R 2049-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845-T

Banners
Community United Head Start and Day Care — recruitment drive (O 1694-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Body, interior and exterior repair of motor vehicles — contract per Ord. 245-04 to
American Fleet Services — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 528-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
Diesel fuel, low sulfur #2 dyed — contract per Ord. 248-04 to Petroleum Traders
Corporation — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 527-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Rexel Midland — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 520-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Professional Electric Products Co. — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 521-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Professional Electric Supply, d.b.a., Rexel Inc. — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 522-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to HSQ Technology, a Corporation — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 523-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Invensys Systems, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 524-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Computational Systems, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 525-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation —
per Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 — bids rejected — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 526-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to
Rexel Midland — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 512-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to RFL
Electronics Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 513-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to
Professional Electric Products Co. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 514-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01
to HSQ Technology, a Corporation — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 515-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to
Hach Company — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 516-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848

1857

The City Record

30

September 22, 2004

SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to
Computational Systems Incorporated — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 517-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01
to Invensys Systems, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 518-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to
Southern Electric Supply, d.b.a., Rexel Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 519-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — per Ord. 1954-01 — bids rejected — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 511-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
Wood poles and cross arms — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Professional
Electric Products Company — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 529-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
Wood poles and cross arms — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — bids rejected — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 530-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Meridian Avenue, 8720 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-16-133 — to Curly Mae Jelks per Ord. 1115-2000
(BOC Res. 537-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Meridian Avenue, 8720 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-16-133 — to Curly Mae Jelks per Ord. 1115-2000
(BOC Res. 537-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 7)
Meridian Avenue, 8720 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-16-133 — to Curly Mae Jelks per Ord. 1115-2000
(BOC Res. 537-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Community Reentry Strategy Project — contract per Ord. 373-03 to The Partnership For a
Safer Cleveland — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 536-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
Technology Training — approve subcontractors — BOC Res. 677-03 — Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 506-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1846

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Community Reentry Strategy Project — contract per Ord. 373-03 to The Partnership For a
Safer Cleveland (BOC Res. 536-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Computer related equipment for 205 St. Clair Avenue — contract per Ord. 69-04
to Government Acquisiitons, Incorporated (BOC Res. 533-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of — contract per Ord. 577-04 to
Kurtz Brothers, Inc. — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
(BOC Res. 534-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
Recycling of office paper — per C.O. Sec. 181.18 — all bids rejected — Division of Waste
Collection and Disposal (BOC Res. 535-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Body, interior and exterior repair of motor vehicles — contract per Ord. 245-04 to
American Fleet Services — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 528-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
Diesel fuel, low sulfur #2 dyed — contract per Ord. 248-04 to Petroleum
Traders Corporation — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 527-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to 3-D Service, Ltd. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 507-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1846
Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to Rexel Midland — Division of Water (BOC Res. 508-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1846
Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to Professional Electric Products Co. — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 509-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847

1858

September 22, 2004

The City Record

31

Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to Southern Electric Supply, d.b.a., Rexel Inc. — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 510-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
Motor control centers, swithgear, controls and appurtenances — per Ord. 2355-01 — bids
rejected — Division of Water (BOC Res. 532-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Rexel Midland — Divisions of Water and Cleveland
Public Power (BOC Res. 520-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Professional Electric Products Co. — Divisions of Water and
Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 521-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Professional Electric Supply, d.b.a., Rexel Inc. —
Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 522-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to HSQ Technology, a Corporation — Divisions of Water and
Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 523-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Invensys Systems, Inc. — Divisions of Water and Cleveland
Public Power (BOC Res. 524-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Computational Systems, Inc. — Divisions of Water and
Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 525-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — per Ord.
1951-01, 1953-01 — bids rejected — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public
Power (BOC Res. 526-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Rexel Midland —
Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 512-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to RFL
Electronics Inc. — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 513-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Professional
Electric Products Co. — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 514-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to HSQ
Technology, a Corporation — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power (
BOC Res. 515-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Hach Company —
Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 516-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Computational
Systems Incorporated — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 517-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Invensys
Systems, Inc. — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 518-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Southern
Electric Supply, d.b.a., Rexel Inc. — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 519-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — per Ord. 1954-01 — bids rejected Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 511-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
Superior Avenue area sewer system relining — per Ord. 644-03 — all bids rejected Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 531-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
Technology Training — approve subcontractors — BOC Res. 677-03 — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 506-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1846
Wood poles and cross arms — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Professional
Electric Products Company — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 529-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
Wood poles and cross arms — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — bids rejected — Division of Cleveland
Public Power (BOC Res. 530-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Body, interior and exterior repair of motor vehicles — contract per Ord. 245-04 to
American Fleet Services — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 528-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
Computer related equipment for 205 St. Clair Avenue — contract per Ord. 69-04
to Government Acquisiitons, Incorporated — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 533-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851

1859

32

The City Record

September 22, 2004

Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of — contract per Ord. 577-04 to Kurtz
Brothers, Inc. — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 534-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
Diesel fuel, low sulfur #2 dyed — contract per Ord. 248-04 to Petroleum Traders
Corporation — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 527-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to 3-D Service, Ltd. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 507-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1846
Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to Rexel Midland — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 508-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1846
Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to Professional Electric Products Co. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 509-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to Southern Electric Supply, d.b.a., Rexel Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 510-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Rexel Midland — Divisions of Water and Cleveland
Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 520-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Professional Electric Products Co. — Divisions of Water and
Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 521-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Professional Electric Supply, d.b.a., Rexel Inc. —
Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 522-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to HSQ Technology, a Corporation — Divisions of Water and
Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 523-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Invensys Systems, Inc. — Divisions of Water and Cleveland
Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 524-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Computational Systems, Inc. — Divisions of Water and
Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 525-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Rexel Midland —
Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 512-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to RFL
Electronics Inc. — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 513-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Professional
Electric Products Co. — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 514-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to HSQ
Technology, a Corporation — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 515-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Hach Company —
Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 516-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Computational
Systems Incorporated — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 517-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Invensys
Systems, Inc. — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 518-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Southern
Electric Supply, d.b.a., Rexel Inc. — Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 519-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
Wood poles and cross arms — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Professional Electric
Products Company — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 529-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851

1860

September 22, 2004

The City Record

33

Board of Control — Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of — contract per Ord. 577-04 to Kurtz
Brothers, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 534-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
Recycling of office paper — per C.O. Sec. 181.18 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 535-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851

Board of Control — Water Division
Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to 3-D Service, Ltd. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 507-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1846
Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to Rexel Midland — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 508-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1846
Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to Professional Electric Products Co. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 509-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
Motor control centers, switchgear, controls and appurtenances — contract per Ord. 2355-01
to Southern Electric Supply, d.b.a., Rexel Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 510-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
Motor control centers, swithgear, controls and appurtenances — per Ord. 2355-01 — bids
rejected — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 532-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Rexel Midland — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 520-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Professional Electric Products Co. — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 521-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Professional Electric Supply, d.b.a., Rexel Inc. — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 522-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to HSQ Technology, a Corporation — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 523-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1849
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Invensys Systems, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 524-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — contract per
Ord. 1951-01, 1953-01 to Computational Systems, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 525-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system computer software, upgrades and support and implementation — per Ord.
1951-01, 1953-01 — bids rejected — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 526-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Rexel Midland —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 512-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to RFL
Electronics Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 513-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Professional
Electric Products Co. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 514-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 t
o HSQ Technology, a Corporation — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 515-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Hach Company —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 516-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Computational
Systems Incorporated — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 517-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Invensys
Systems, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 518-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — contract per Ord. 1954-01 to Southern
Electric Supply, d.b.a., Rexel Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 519-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1848
SCADA system replacement parts and equipment — per Ord. 1954-01 — bids rejected — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 511-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1847
Technology Training — approve subcontractors — BOC Res. 677-03 — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 506-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1846

1861

The City Record

34

September 22, 2004

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Superior Avenue area sewer system relining — per Ord. 644-03 — all bids rejected — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 531-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1851

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bridge Avenue, 2927, (Ward 14) — The 2927 Bridge Ltd., owner and Argile Jani —
appeal postponed to 10/25/04 on 9/20/04 (Cal. 04-204). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
Bridge Avenue, 5001, (Ward 17) — Victor and Sonia Sanchez, owners — appeal heard on
9/20/04 (Cal. 04-208) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852
Broadway Avenue, 4120, (Ward 5) — William and Patricia Sharp, owners — appeal heard on
9/20/04 (Cal. 04-187) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
East 156th Street, 271, (Ward 11) — Doreen Mitchell, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 9/20/04 (Cal. 04-131) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
East 54th Street, 3621, (Ward 12) — Chana Newman, owner and Investment Realty Group,
agent — appeal heard on 9/20/04 (Cal. 04-203) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
East 82nd Street, 1215, (Ward 7) — Kimberly Capers, owner — appeal postponed to 10/18/04
on 9/20/04 (Cal. 04-202) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
East 85th Street, 1598, (Ward 7) — Louise Jennings, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 9/20/04 (Cal. 04-200) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
Elton Avenue, 7925, (Ward 17) — Ernest Shinault, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
9/20/04 (Cal. 04-201) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
Harvard Avenue, 6500, (Ward 12) — Robert Todys, owner and George Kanaan,
prospective purchaser — appeal postponed to 10/25/04 on 9/20/04
(Cal. 04-189) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
Miles Avenue, 14300, (Ward 1) — Michael Sudman, owner and Cathy Eaton, tenant — appeal
granted and adopted on 9/20/04 (Cal. 04-125) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
Mohamed, Mahad — — appeal to be reconsidered on 10/4/04
(Cal. 04-140) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852
Union Avenue, 11317, (Ward 3) — Jeremiah Baptist Church, owner c/o Chairman Deacon
Phillips — appeal granted and adopted on 9/20/04 (Cal. 04-164) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
West 130th Street, 4603-05, (Ward 20) — Nick Fedorchuk, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 9/20/04 (Cal. 04-196) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
Woodland Avenue, 3500, (Ward 5) — Neal Desatnik, owner — appeal postponed to 10/18/04 on
9/20/04 (Cal. 04-205) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
Woodland Avenue, 9515, (Ward 6) — M. Weingold & Company, owner and Independence
Excavating c/o Justin Fox, tenant — appeal granted and adopted on 9/20/04
(Cal. 04-62) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Broadview Road, 2118, (Ward 15) — Hikmat Dakdouk, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/4/04
(Cal. 04-206) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852
Lorain Avenue, 12409, (Ward 19) — Lakewood Hospital Association c/o David Cross, agent —
appeal to be heard on 10/4/04 (Cal. 04-214) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852
West 52nd Street, 3193, (Ward 14) — Ijaz Qureshi, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/4/04
(Cal. 04-217) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1852

Bonds
City’s Nontax Revenue Bonds, Series 1999 (Cleveland Stadium Project) — refund —
$15,000,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 1769-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Budget
Tax Budget, 2005 — adopt and declare (R 1463-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853

City Planning Commission
ArtSpace/Cleveland — grant agreement — Live/Work Space Feasibility Study — Ward 13 NEF
(O 1688-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856
Broadview Rd. & W. 22nd St. (corner) — change the zoning — Local Retail Business Use
District — “C’ Area District (O 1357-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
Buckeye Rd. (north & south) between E. 116th & E. 124th Sts. — Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District (O 1042-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
Holmden Ave. (south) — unnamed alley (north) — W. 14th St. (east) — change the zoning
— Multi-Family Residential Use District (O 1521-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845-1846

1862

September 22, 2004

The City Record

35

Krather Building School, The — Cleveland Landmark (O 1772-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
Pearl and Krather Rds. (southwest corner) — change the zoning — Parking District
(O 1524-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Planning — Business Redevelopment Plan — agreement —
Ward 8 NEF (O 1780-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842
Stanford Ave. (near Pearl Rd.) — change the zoning — Two-Family Residential Use
District — “B” Area District (O 1523-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
University Rd., W. 14th St. & Crown Ave. (land bounded by) — change the zoning —
General Retail Business Use District (O 1522-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
W. 130th St. (west side) — from Sprecher Ave. to Crossburn Ave. change the zoning
— Local Retail Business Use District (O 1525-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
Willbur Wright Middle School — Cleveland Landmark (O 1776-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839

Cleveland Food Basket Program
New Cleveland Food Basket for Food Program — Needy Residents — Wards 2 and 3 NEF
(O 1784-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843

Cleveland Public Power
PJM Interconnection LLC — City’s membership (O 1464-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845

Communications
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2003
— State Auditor (F 1792-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Economic Development Dept. — Recommendations of Tax Incentive Review Council
(F 1793-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Fair Employment Wage Board — re: Fair Employment Wage Law Notice to Covered Employees
(F 1794-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Office of Equal Opportunity — Department of Port Control — Executive Summary of
Bi-Monthly Office of Equal Opportunity Air Report (F 1791-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Service Department — letter requesting Res. No. 2049-03 be tabled
(F 1795-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Taft, Governor Bob — receipt letter of Resolution No. 1540-04 (F 1790-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

Community Development
Cleveland Church of Christ Economic Development, Inc. — Community Parenting Program —
Ward 8 NEF (O 1779-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842
Glenville Homes, III L.P. — Land Reutilization Program — scattered sites (Ward 8)
(O 1775-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
Hough Homes, L.P. — Land Reutilization Program — scattered sites (Ward 9)
(O 1789-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
InterAct Cleveland — grant agreement — InterAct Hunger Center program — Ward 6
NEF (O 1687-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center — Glenville Community Support Program — Ward 3
NEF (O 1782-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842
New Cleveland Food Basket for Food Program — Needy Residents — Wards 2 and 3 NEF
(O 1784-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
New Day in Hough Food Distribution Program — amend Ord. No. 789-04 — Ward 7 NEF
(O 1778-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841
Thea Bowman Center — Mt. Pleasant Community Orchestra program — amend Ord. No. 1205-04
— Ward 3 NEF (O 1783-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842

Condolences
Bolden, Linda (R 1804-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Williams, Joseph Lee (R 1805-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Congratulations
Barnes Brown, Lessie (R 1812-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Black Women’s Political Action Committee (R 1806-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Cudell Improvement, Inc. (R 1809-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Martin - Leverett Family Reunion (R 1808-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Murphy, Mrs. Georgia (R 1807-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Norwood, Ada E. (R 1811-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Pilgrim United Church of Christ (R 1810-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

1863

The City Record

36

September 22, 2004

County Auditor
County Auditor — advances — year 2005 (R 1773-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841

County Budget Commission
Tax Budget, 2005 — adopt and declare (R 1463-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853

Cudell Improvement
Cudell Improvement, Inc. — congratulation (R 1809-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Economic Development Department
Economic Development Dept. — Recommendations of Tax Incentive Review Council
(F 1793-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services — amendment to Lease Agreement No. 62490 —
operate the Cleveland Career Center (O 1770-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837

Finance Department
City’s Nontax Revenue Bonds, Series 1999 (Cleveland Stadium Project) — refund —
$15,000,000 — issuance and sale of bonds (O 1769-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
County Auditor — advances — year 2005 (R 1773-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841
Severe weather and storm damages — apply for and accept funds — reimburse Cleveland —
U.S.A. — State of Ohio (O 1462-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
Tax Budget, 2005 — adopt and declare (R 1463-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853

Funds
Communications and intelligence equipment — grant — U.S. Attorney General’s Office —
Nextel to implement the grant (O 1669-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
Severe weather and storm damages — apply for and accept funds — reimburse Cleveland —
U.S.A. — State of Ohio (O 1462-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Grants
Communications and intelligence equipment — U.S. Attorney General’s Office — Nextel to
implement the grant (O 1669-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Homeless
Homeless funding and health care — — job training and technical assistance
— transitioning homeless veterans (R 1689-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853

Land Reutilization Program
Glenville Homes, III L.P. — scattered sites (Ward 8) (O 1775-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
Hough Homes, L.P. — scattered sites (Ward 9) (O 1789-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839

Landmark Commission
Krather Building School, The — Cleveland Landmark (O 1772-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
Willbur Wright Middle School — Cleveland Landmark (O 1776-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839

Lease Agreement
Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services — amendment to Lease Agreement No. 62490 —
operate the Cleveland Career Center (O 1770-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837

Liquor Permits
Broadway Ave., 7348 — transfer (Ward 12) (F 1802-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
E. 135th St., 3218 — objection — withdraw (Ward 4) (R 1691-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854
Euclid Ave., 2121 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 1798-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Harvard Ave., 7910 — objection — withdraw (Ward 2) (R 1788-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1844
Lester Ave., 4401 — new (Ward 5) (F 1797-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Lorain Ave., 16612 — transfer (Ward 21) (F 1800-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

1864

September 22, 2004

The City Record

37

Martin Luther King Jr. Dr., 3832 — new (Ward 3) (F 1796-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
W. 105th St., 3582 — transfer (Ward 19) (F 1799-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
W. 25th St., 1909 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 1801-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Woodhill Rd., 2886 — transfer — objection (Ward 4) (R 1690-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854

Neighborhood Equity Funds
ArtSpace/Cleveland — grant agreement — Live/Work Space Feasibility Study — Ward
13 (O 1688-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856
Cleveland Church of Christ Economic Development, Inc. — Community Parenting Program —
Ward 8 (O 1779-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842
Garret Square Development Corporation – Glenville Titans Football Program – Ward 8

NEF (O 1781-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842
InterAct Cleveland — grant agreement — InterAct Hunger Center program — Ward 6
(O 1687-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center — Glenville Community Support Program — Ward 3
(O 1782-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842
New Cleveland Food Basket for Food Program — Needy Residents — Wards 2 and
3 (O 1784-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
New Day in Hough Food Distribution Program — amend Ord. No. 789-04 — Ward 7
(O 1778-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Planning — Business Redevelopment Plan — agreement —
Ward 8 (O 1780-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842
Thea Bowman Center — Mt. Pleasant Community Orchestra program — amend Ord. No. 1205-04
— Ward 3 (O 1783-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842

Office of Equal Opportunity
Executive Summary of Bi-Monthly Office of Equal Opportunity Air Report (F 1791-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department

Garret Square Development Corporation – Glenville Titans Football Program – Ward 8
NEF (O 1781-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842

Peddlers
Martinez, Seti (Ward 5) (O 1774-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841

Pensions
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation — review — encourage U.S. House of Representatives
and U.S. Senates (R 1786-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843

Permits
Annual Walk for Disabilities, 27th — Disability Services and Disability Ministries of
Catholic Charities Services (O 1777-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841
John Adams Core Group — hang flags (O 1695-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856
OROC 5K & 1 Mile Walk — Hermes Sports & Events (O 1785-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
Poseidon Investment Group LLC dba East 55th Street Marina — D-5f permit — not
inconsistent — comprehensive development plan (R 1577-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845

Port Control Department
Executive Summary of Bi-Monthly Office of Equal Opportunity Air Report
(F 1791-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

Public Hearings (Notices)
W. 130th St. (west side) — from Sprecher Ave. to Crossburn Ave. change the zoning
— Local Retail Business Use District (O 1525-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853

Recognition
Alvarado, Alicia (R 1813-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

1865

The City Record

38

September 22, 2004

Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Glidden Company — Opposing the intended relocation — Strongsville
(R 1692-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854
Homeless funding and health care — — job training and technical assistance
— transitioning homeless veterans (R 1689-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853
NBC-LEO Summer 2004 Conference — City of Cleveland — Council’s honor — gratitude
(R 1803-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1844
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation — review — encourage U.S. House of Representatives
and U.S. Senates (R 1786-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
Provisional ballot order — oppose — issued by Secretary of State (R 1787-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
Truck size and weight — opposing increase — United States Highways
(R 1693-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Safety Department
Communications and intelligence equipment — grant — U.S. Attorney General’s Office —
Nextel to implement the grant (O 1669-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Service Department
Annual Walk for Disabilities, 27th — permit — Disability Services and Disability
Ministries of Catholic Charities Services (O 1777-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841
Architecture Division — furniture, fixtures, and equipment — purchase (O 1771-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1837
Community United Head Start and Day Care — banner — recruitment drive (O 1694-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856
John Adams Core Group — permit — hang flags (O 1695-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856
OROC 5K & 1 Mile Walk — permit — Hermes Sports & Events (O 1785-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
Res. 2049-03 — letter requesting resolution to be tabled (F 1795-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
W. 117th St. & Western Ave. — intention to appropriate — street widening (R 2049-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845

State Auditor
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2003
(F 1792-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831

State of Ohio
Severe weather and storm damages — apply for and accept funds — reimburse Cleveland —
U.S.A. — State of Ohio (O 1462-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Tabled Legislation
W. 117th St. & Western Ave. — intention to appropriate — street widening
(R 2049-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845-T

Taxes
Tax Budget, 2005 — adopt and declare (R 1463-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853

Utilities Department
PJM Interconnection LLC — City’s membership — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(O 1464-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845

Ward 01
Barnes Brown, Lessie — congratulation (R 1812-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Ward 02
Harvard Ave., 7910 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 1788-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1844
John Adams Core Group — permit — hang flags (O 1695-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856
New Cleveland Food Basket for Food Program — Needy Residents — Wards 2 and 3 NEF
(O 1784-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843

1866

September 22, 2004

The City Record

39

Ward 03
Martin - Leverett Family Reunion — congratulation (R 1808-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Martin Luther King Jr. Dr., 3832 — new — liquor permit (F 1796-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Murphy, Mrs. Georgia — congratulation (R 1807-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center — Glenville Community Support Program — NEF
(O 1782-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842
New Cleveland Food Basket for Food Program — Needy Residents — Wards 2 and 3 NEF
(O 1784-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
Thea Bowman Center — Mt. Pleasant Community Orchestra program — amend Ord. No. 1205-04
— NEF (O 1783-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842

Ward 04
Buckeye Rd. (north & south) between E. 116th & E. 124th Sts. — Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District (O 1042-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
E. 135th St., 3218 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 1691-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854
Woodhill Rd., 2886 — transfer — objection — liquor permit (R 1690-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1854

Ward 05
Black Women’s Political Action Committee — congratulation (R 1806-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Bolden, Linda — condolence (R 1804-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Community United Head Start and Day Care — banner — recruitment drive (O 1694-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856
Lester Ave., 4401 — new — liquor permit (F 1797-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Martinez, Seti — peddler (O 1774-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841
Williams, Joseph Lee — condolence (R 1805-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Ward 06
Buckeye Rd. (north & south) between E. 116th & E. 124th Sts. — Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District (O 1042-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
InterAct Cleveland — grant agreement — InterAct Hunger Center program — NEF
(O 1687-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856

Ward 07
New Day in Hough Food Distribution Program — amend Ord. No. 789-04 — NEF (O 1778-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841

Ward 08
Black Women’s Political Action Committee — congratulation (R 1806-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Cleveland Church of Christ Economic Development, Inc. — Community Parenting Program —
NEF (O 1779-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842

Ward 8

Garret Square Development Corporation – Glenville Titans Football Program – Ward 8
NEF (O 1781-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842
Glenville Homes, III L.P. — Land Reutilization Program — scattered sites (Ward 8)
(O 1775-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
OROC 5K & 1 Mile Walk — permit — Hermes Sports & Events (O 1785-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1843
Poseidon Investment Group LLC dba East 55th Street Marina — D-5f permit — not
inconsistent — comprehensive development plan (R 1577-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Planning — Business Redevelopment Plan — agreement —
NEF (O 1780-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1842

Ward 09
Hough Homes, L.P. — Land Reutilization Program — scattered sites (O 1789-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839
Norwood, Ada E. — congratulation (R 1811-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Ward 12
Broadway Ave., 7348 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1802-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

1867

The City Record

40

September 22, 2004

Ward 13
Annual Walk for Disabilities, 27th — permit — Disability Services and Disability
Ministries of Catholic Charities Services (O 1777-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1841
ArtSpace/Cleveland — grant agreement — Live/Work Space Feasibility Study — NEF
(O 1688-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856
Euclid Ave., 2121 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1798-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
Holmden Ave. (south) — unnamed alley (north) — W. 14th St. (east) — change the zoning
— Multi-Family Residential Use District (O 1521-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845-1846
Pilgrim United Church of Christ — congratulation (R 1810-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
University Rd., W. 14th St. & Crown Ave. (land bounded by) — change the zoning —
General Retail Business Use District (O 1522-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845

Ward 14
Alvarado, Alicia — recognition (R 1813-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
Martin - Leverett Family Reunion — congratulation (R 1808-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
W. 25th St., 1909 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1801-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Ward 15
Broadview Rd. & W. 22nd St. (corner) — change the zoning — Local Retail Business Use
District — “C’ Area District (O 1357-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
Krather Building School, The — Cleveland Landmark (O 1772-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1838
Pearl and Krather Rds. (southwest corner) — change the zoning — Parking District
(O 1524-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
Stanford Ave. (near Pearl Rd.) — change the zoning — Two-Family Residential Use
District — “B” Area District (O 1523-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845

Ward 18
Cudell Improvement, Inc. — congratulation (R 1809-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832
W. 117th St. & Western Ave. — intention to appropriate — street widening
(R 2049-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845-T

Ward 19
W. 105th St., 3582 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1799-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1831
W. 117th St. & Western Ave. — intention to appropriate — street widening
(R 2049-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845-T
Willbur Wright Middle School — Cleveland Landmark (O 1776-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1839

Ward 20
W. 130th St. (west side) — from Sprecher Ave. to Crossburn Ave. change the zoning
— Local Retail Business Use District (O 1525-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853

Ward 21
Lorain Ave., 16612 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1800-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1832

Zoning
Broadview Rd. & W. 22nd St. (corner) — change the zoning — Local Retail Business Use
District — “C’ Area District (O 1357-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
Buckeye Rd. (north & south) between E. 116th & E. 124th Sts. — Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District (O 1042-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
Pearl and Krather Rds. (southwest corner) — change the zoning — Parking District
(O 1524-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
Stanford Ave. (near Pearl Rd.) — change the zoning — Two-Family Residential Use
District — “B” Area District (O 1523-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
University Rd., W. 14th St. & Crown Ave. (land bounded by) — change the zoning —
General Retail Business Use District (O 1522-04). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1845
W. 130th St. (west side) — from Sprecher Ave. to Crossburn Ave. change the zoning
— Local Retail Business Use District (O 1525-04) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1853

1868

