The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Third, Two Thousand and Eighteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

4

Board of Control

11

Civil Service

12

1 Joseph T. Jones

Board of Zoning Appeals

13

2 Kevin L. Bishop
3 Kerry McCormack

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
14

4 Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr.

Public Notice

14

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

15

6 Blaine A. Griffin

City of Cleveland Bids

15

7 Basheer S. Jones

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

15

Committee Meetings

15

Index

15

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Anthony T. Hairston
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Jasmin Santana
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones...................................................4691 East 177th Street
44128
Kevin L. Bishop...............................................11729 Miles Avenue, #5
44105
Kerry McCormack ..............................................1429 West 38th Street
44113
Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr. ........................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44115
Blaine A. Griffin.........................................1810 Larchmere Boulevard
44120
Basheer S. Jones...................................................1383 East 94th Street
44106
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Anthony T. Hairston .....................................................423 Arbor Road
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Jasmin Santana......................................................3535 Marvin Avenue
44109
Matt Zone ............................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Matt Gray, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Duane Deskins, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Prevention, Intervention and
Opportunity for Youth and Young Adults
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – _________________ Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
OFFICE OF QUALITY CONTROL AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT – Sabra
T. Pierce-Scott, Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Kimberly Roy-Wilson,
Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Robert Kennedy, Director, Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Kim Johnson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Merle Gordon, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – David Hearne, Interim Commissioner
Environment – Brian Kimball, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Persis Sosiak, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – Edward Jamison, Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Michael Cosgrove, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Joy Anderson, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –James Greene, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ayonna Blue Donald, Interim Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole West, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – David Ebersole, Interim Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Mary McNamara, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Grady Stevenson, Interim Director,
Mayor Frank G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., ViceChairman, Council Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt
E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John
O. Horton, Gary Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland
Muhammad, Gia Hoa Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Rev. Gregory E. Jordan, President; Michael
Flickinger, Vice-President; Barry A. Withers, Interim Secretary; Members: Daniel J.
Brennan, India Pierce Lee.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Henry Bailey, Kelley Britt, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth Kukla,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Public Utilities Director Robert L. Davis; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – _____________, Chair; Daniel Conway, Robert L. Render,
Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Julie Trott, Chair; Giancarlo
Calicchia, Vice Chair; Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Council
Member Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Donald Petit, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 15C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Janet Rath Colaluca – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 14C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Jimmy L. Jackson, Jr. – Courtroom 12A
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Ronald J.H. O’Leary (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael R. Sliwinski – Courtroom 13C
Judge Suzan Marie Sweeney – Courtroom 12C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda
– Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

Vol. 105

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 2018

No. 5430

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 1, 2018
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2018-2021
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Griffin
(CHAIR),
McCormack
(VICECHAIR), Conwell, B. Jones, Hairston, Santana, Zone.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR), Bishop, Brancatelli, Hairston, J. Jones, Kazy.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley
(CHAIR),
Zone
(VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell,
Griffin,
Keane,
McCormack.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, B.
Jones, Keane, McCormack.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Kazy
(VICECHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, McCormack, Polensek, Santana.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Conwell
(CHAIR), Cleveland (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Griffin, B. Jones, J. Jones,
Kazy.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone (CHAIR), Polensek (VICECHAIR), Griffin, Kazy, B. Jones, J.
Jones, Santana.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Keane
(VICE-CHAIR),
Bishop,
Conwell,
Johnson, J. Jones, Santana.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:

ELECTION OF
TEMPORARY CHAIR

Mayor’s Appointments Committee:
Kazy (CHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Kelley.

Council
Member
Dona
Brady
moved that Council Member Phyllis
E. Cleveland serve as Temporary
Chair for the purpose of organizing
the Council. Council Member Blaine
A. Griffin seconded the motion.
Council Member Kerry McCormack
moved that nominations for Temporary Chair be closed.

Operations Committee: McCormack
(CHAIR), Griffin, Keane, Kelley,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Polensek.

Kelley
Hairston,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 1, 2018
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:04 p.m. by City
Clerk, Clerk of Council Patricia J.
Britt.

Council
Members-Elect
present:
Kevin
L.
Bishop,
Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Phyllis
E.
Cleveland, Kevin Conwell, Blaine A.
Griffin,
Anthony
T.
Hairston,
Basheer S. Jones, Joseph T. Jones,
Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr., Brian
Kazy, Martin J. Keane, Kevin J.
Kelley, Kerry McCormack, Michael
D. Polensek, Jasmin Santana, and
Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief Operating Officer
Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Edward W.
Rybka, Chief of Education Monyka
S. Price, Media Relations Director
Dan Williams, Chief of Sustainability Matt Gray, Chief of Public
Affairs Natoya Walker-Minor, and
Directors
Langhenry,
Davis,
Kennedy, Spronz, Cox, Donald, Ebersole, Stevenson, Burrows and Pierce
Scott.
MOTION
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
invocations were offered by Rev. Dr.
R.E. Hedgeman, of Bethany Christian Church (Disciples of Christ);
Imam Abbas Ahmad of the First
Cleveland Mosque; and Rabbi Lauren Werber of Temple B’nai Abraham. The National Anthem was
sung by Cleveland Police Sergeant
Kennedy Jones.
SWEARING-IN OF
COUNCIL MEMBERS
The Honorable Judge Ronald B.
Adrine, Presiding and Administrative Judge of the Cleveland Municipal Court, administered the oath of
office to the Council Members.

3

The City Clerk, Clerk of Council
called the roll. Council Member
Phyllis E. Cleveland received 17
votes. Those who voted for Council
Member Cleveland: Council Members
Bishop, Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell,
Griffin,
Hairston,
Basheer Jones, Joseph Jones, Johnson, Kazy, Keane, Kelley, McCormack,
Polensek,
Santana,
Zone.
Council Member Cleveland assumed
the Chair.
ELECTION OF
COUNCIL PRESIDENT
Council Member Kevin L. Bishop
made a motion to nominate Council
Member Kevin J. Kelley as President of Council. Council Member
Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr. seconded
the motion. Council Member Martin
J. Keane moved that the nominations
for
Council
President
be
closed.
The
Temporary
Chair
instructed Members of Council to
state the name of their candidate for
President of Council when responding to the roll call.
The City Clerk, Clerk of Council
called the roll. Council Member
Kevin J. Kelley received 17 votes.
Those who voted for Council Member Kelley were: Council Members
Bishop, Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell,
Griffin,
Hairston,
Basheer Jones, Joseph Jones, Johnson, Kazy, Keane, Kelley, McCormack, Polensek, Santana, and Zone.
Cuyahoga
County
Prosecutor
Michael C. O’Malley administered
the oath of office to Council Member Kevin J. Kelley, the newly elected President of Council. Council
President Kelley assumed the Chair,
thanked the Council Members for
giving him the opportunity to serve
as President of Council, and made
remarks.
ELECTION OF CITY CLERK,
CLERK OF COUNCIL
Council Member Brian Kazy made
a motion to nominate Patricia J.
Britt as City Clerk, Clerk of Council. Council Member Joseph T. Jones

The City Record

4
seconded the motion. Council Member Matt Zone moved that the nominations for City Clerk, Clerk of
Council be closed. Council President
Kelley instructed the Members of
Council to state the name of their
candidate for City Clerk, Clerk of
Council when responding to the roll
call.
The Deputy Clerk/Clerk of Council Pro Tempore Allan Dreyer called
the roll. Patricia J. Britt received 17
votes. Those voting for Patricia J.
Britt were: Council Members Bishop,
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Conwell,
Griffin,
Hairston,
Basheer
Jones, Joseph Jones, Johnson, Kazy,
Keane,
Kelley,
McCormack,
Polensek, Santana, and Zone.
The Honorable Judge Ronald B.
Adrine, Presiding and Administrative Judge of the Cleveland Municipal Court, administered the oath of
office to Patricia J. Britt, the newly
elected City Clerk, Clerk of Council.
Council Clerk Britt thanked the
Council Members for giving her the
opportunity to continue to serve as
City Clerk, Clerk of Council.

RULES OF COUNCIL

File No. 4-18.
Rules of Order Governing the
Council of the City of Cleveland for
2018-2021. These rules of order shall
govern the procedures of the City
Council and the conduct of its members. Recommended by the Rules
Committee of Cleveland City Council. Received.

The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:54 p.m. to meet on Monday, January 8, 2018, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR

OATHS OF OFFICE
File No. 1-18.
Members of Cleveland City Council, for 2018-2021 term. Received.
Ward 1 — Joseph T. Jones
Ward 2 — Kevin L. Bishop
Ward 3 — Kerry McCormack
Ward 4 — Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr.
Ward 5 — Phyllis E. Cleveland
Ward 6 — Blaine A. Griffin
Ward 7 — Basheer S. Jones
Ward 8 — Michael D. Polensek
Ward 9 — Kevin Conwell
Ward 10 — Anthony T. Hairston
Ward 11 — Dona Brady
Ward 12 — Anthony Brancatelli
Ward 13 — Kevin J. Kelley
Ward 14 — Jasmin Santana
Ward 15 — Matt Zone
Ward 16 — Brian Kazy
Ward 17 — Martin J. Keane

regular meetings of the Council
shall be held in the Council Chamber every Monday evening at 7:00
o’clock
P.M.,
unless
otherwise
ordered by motion, resolution or
ordinance. Whenever the regular
meeting falls on a legal holiday or
a special election day — or the day
preceding a legal holiday or primary or other election day, the meeting shall be held on a day to be
fixed by the Council.

MOTION

MOTION
Council Member Martin J. Keane
moved that the Rules of Order Governing the Council of the City of
Cleveland for 2018-2021 (File No. 418) be adopted. Council Member
Anthony Brancatelli seconded the
motion. Council President Kelley
asked the Clerk to call the roll. The
City Clerk, Clerk of Council called
the roll. The Rules of Order Governing the Council of the City of
Cleveland
for
2018-2021
were
approved with 17 votes. Those who
voted to approve the Rules: Council
Members Bishop, Brady, Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Conwell, Griffin, Hairston, Basheer Jones, Joseph Jones,
Johnson,
Kazy,
Keane,
Kelley,
McCormack,
Polensek,
Santana,
Zone. The Rules of Council for the
2014-2017 Council term were adopted.
Council President Kelley declares
that the Council is hereby organized.
Council President Kelley called on
each newly-elected Council Member
for individual remarks.

January 3, 2018

The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

RULES OF COUNCIL
Rules of Order
Governing the Council of the City
of Cleveland
2018-2021
[approved by City Council
on January 1, 2018]
(Revised)
The following rules of order shall
govern the procedures of the City
Council and the conduct of its members.
I. MEETINGS: PLACE, TIME OF
CONVENING, QUORUM, ORDER
OF BUSINESS
Rule 1. Meetings — Place. All
meetings of the Council shall be
held in the Council Chamber in the
City Hall, unless otherwise ordered
by the Council.

File No. 2-18.
Kevin J. Kelley, President of
Cleveland City Council. Received.

Rule 2. Meetings — Public. All
meetings of the Council or its committees shall be public, and upon
request of any citizen desiring to be
heard on any matter then under consideration by the Council, the Council may, on motion, resolve itself
into a Committee of the Whole and
hear that citizen at the date, time
and for the length of time as Council may determine. Persons desiring
to be heard by any committee of
Council on any matter then under
consideration may, by consent of
such committee, be given an opportunity to be heard. All Rules of
Council minutes and records of the
Council shall be open to the public
at
all
reasonable
times,
upon
request.

File No. 3-18.
Patricia J. Britt, City Clerk, Clerk
of Council. Received.

Rule 3. Regular Meetings. After
the Council has been organized pursuant to Section 28 of the Charter,

4

Rule 4. Summer Schedule. During
the months of July and August, the
Council shall be on summer schedule and shall meet at times and
dates set forth in the resolution of
Council establishing the summer
schedule.
Rule 5. Special Meetings. Special
meetings may be called at any time
by the Mayor, the President of Council, or any five members upon at
least twelve (12) hours written
notice to each member of the Council served personally on each member or left at his usual place of residence; provided, however, that no
notice need be served on any Councilmember present at a meeting of
Council at which the President of
Council gives oral notice of the time
and purpose of a special meeting.
Any special meeting notice shall
state the subjects to be considered
at the meeting, and no other subjects shall be considered at the special meeting.
Rule 6. Quorum; Professionalism.
A majority of all the members elected to Council shall be a quorum to
do business, but a less number may
adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of absent members in the manner and under the
penalties that are prescribed by
these rules.
All members shall conduct themselves professionally and with civility, and shall attend all official
meetings of Council in appropriate
professional attire. Appropriate professional attire means: for men: suit
and tie; for women: dresses or skirts
no more than 4 inches above the
knee; dress slacks or pants; blouses
or dress shirts; for men and women:
hose or socks, dress shoes, dress
boots or loafers. All clothing must
appear neat, pressed and clean.
Inappropriate attire includes: denims or jeans of any color or style;
sweat pants; jogging suits; shorts;
sweatshirts; spandex; tank tops; halters or other bare midriff or bareback apparel; any shirt with company logo; T-shirts; sheer or seethrough blouses or dresses; beachtype or workout clothing; cut-offs;
running or athletic wear; baseball
caps; fashion hats; frayed, patched,
torn (holes) or stained clothing or
shoes; tennis shoes; and clothes that
appear too tight or too short.
Rule 7. Order of Business. The
business of all regular meetings of
the Council shall be transacted in
the following order, unless the Council by a two-thirds vote, suspends
the rules and changes the order.
1. Roll call of members.
2. Prayer.
3. Pledge of Allegiance.
4. Disposal of the journal of the
preceding meeting.
5. Reports and communications
from the Mayor.

January 3, 2018
6. Reports and communications
from departments, commissions and
other public officers.
7. Other communications, petitions
and memorials.
8. Reading and passage of emergency ordinances and resolutions
9. Introduction of ordinances and
resolutions.
10. Second reading of ordinances
and resolutions.
11. Third reading of ordinances
and resolutions.
12. Miscellaneous business shall
be permitted at the direction of the
chair.
13. Report of the clerk of absent
members.
14. Adjournment.
The presiding officer may, at any
time without objection of the members of Council, permit a member to
introduce an ordinance, resolution or
motion out of the regular order; provided, however, if an objection is
made, a two-thirds vote of all members elected to Council shall be
required to permit such introduction
out of the regular order.
II. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
OF COUNCIL
Rule 8. Presiding Officer. The
President of Council and in the President’s absence the President of
Council pro tempore, shall preside
over the meetings of the Council. In
the absence of the President of
Council, the Majority Leader shall
serve as the President of Council
pro tempore; in the absence of both
the President of Council and the
Majority Leader, the Majority Whip
shall serve as the President of Council pro tempore. In the absence of
the President of Council, the Majority Leader and the Majority Whip,
the Clerk of Council shall call the
Council to order; and if, after the
roll call is called a quorum is present, the Council shall choose one of
its members President of Council
pro tempore. The President of Council pro tempore shall preside until
the President of Council appears,
but in no event beyond the meeting,
and shall discharge all the duties
and be clothed with all the powers
of the President of Council as the
presiding officer during the President of Council’s absence.
The Presiding Officer shall call
all meetings of the Council to order
at the hour appointed and shall proceed with the order of business. If
a quorum is present, the Presiding
Officer shall give the members an
opportunity for correcting the journal of the previous meeting, a copy
of which shall be placed on the desk
of each member of the Council. In
the absence of any objections or corrections, the minutes shall stand
approved.
The Presiding Officer shall preserve order and decorum, and prevent impolite, discourteous or disrespectful behavior toward any member of the body, the administration
or the public. He or she shall confine members in debate to the question under discussion and shall prevent a member from questioning or
criticizing the motives of another
member, of the administration, or of
a member of the public. The Presiding Officer shall enforce the time

The City Record
limitation of speaking set forth in
Rule 23, shall decide all points of
order subject to an appeal to the
Council, and shall appoint all standing committees and such select committees as may be authorized by
Council from time to time, except in
those cases where the resolution
authorizing such select committees
specifically names the membership.
Rule 9. Members Presiding. The
President of the Council during any
meeting of Council may name any
member to perform the duties of the
chair; but such substitution shall not
extend beyond that meeting.
Rule 10. The Vote Necessary for
Election of President and Clerk. No
candidate for President or Clerk of
Council shall be declared elected
unless the candidate shall have
received a majority vote of all members elected to Council.
Rule 10-1. Roll Call upon Election
of President, and Filling Vacancies
in the Membership of Council. Upon
the roll call for the election of President of Council, City Clerk, Clerk
of Council, or for filling any vacancy in the membership of Council,
each member shall respond by stating the name of the candidate of his
or her choice eligible for such office
or appointment, which candidate
shall not be required to be a person
duly nominated and whose nomination has been duly seconded, provided, however, that no member
shall be excused from voting except
by unanimous consent.
Rule 10-2. Council Member Office
Space and Parking When Seat is
Vacated Before End of Term. If a
council member vacates his or her
seat any time before the end of a
four year term, the person that fills
the vacancy shall be appointed the
same office space and the same
parking space as the vacating member for use until the expiration of
the term. Upon the start of any new
four year term, office spaces and
parking spaces are re-assigned by
seniority. Seniority is lost for a
member that retires or resigns and
returns to office.
Rule 10-3. Extended Absence of a
Member of Council. Any member of
Council who is unable to attend regular meetings of Council and scheduled committee hearings by reason
of prolonged illness or military
leave, may be excused from such
duties by a two-thirds vote of the
Council authorizing the extended
absence. The Clerk may, through a
professional services agreement(s),
hire a person or persons to supplement the role of the absent member’s Executive Assistant in order to
aid the Executive Assistant in carrying out ward- specific services.
Any professional services agreement
entered into by the Clerk shall have
prior legislative authority of the
Council.
Rule 11. The City Clerk, Clerk of
Council. The Council shall choose a
Clerk and such other officers and
employees as may be deemed necessary and fix their compensation.
The Clerk shall keep the record of
the Council, and the Clerk shall be
the editor of The City Record. The
Clerk shall keep a proper file of all

5

5
papers and documents which are a
part of the transactions of the Council, of meetings of committees and
all orders of the Council, and shall
make such records available to the
public. The Clerk shall be secretary
to all committees, but may assign an
assistant as secretary to any committee. The Clerk shall keep minutes of each committee meeting
which minutes shall be made available for public inspection upon
request. The Clerk shall cause to be
published in The City Record attendance roll calls of committee meetings. In addition, the Clerk shall
report to Council the absence of
members from Council meetings and
shall perform such other and further
duties as may from time to time by
Charter, statute or ordinance be
required of the Clerk.
Rule 11-1. Committee on Council
Operations.
Not later than the fourth meeting
of the Council after its organization,
the
President
of
Council
shall
appoint four (4) members to a Committee on Council Operations. In
addition to the appointed members,
the President of Council shall also
be member of the committee. The
committee shall work in conjunction
with the Clerk to oversee the personnel and operations of Council, as
well as any policies and procedures
that impact the operations of Council.
Rule 11-2. The City Record. The
Clerk of Council, as editor of The
City Record, shall see that the following rules are observed in the
preparation and introduction of ordinances and resolutions and in the
editing and publishing of The City
Record.
(a) The title of all ordinances and
resolutions shall be confined to a
brief statement of the subject matter of the bill and shall be printed
in bold face type.
(b) Preambles or “whereas” clauses in ordinances and resolutions
shall be restricted to one emergency
preamble required by the Charter,
except where a “whereas” clause is
an essential part of the ordinance or
resolution.
(c)
When
drafted,
ordinances
shall be divided into short sections,
wherever practicable, in order to
allow amendments without printing
so much of the original ordinance.
(d) Ceremonial resolutions shall
be numbered and recorded in cases
of death of an outstanding citizen
or occasions of great civic importance.
(e) The minutes and proceedings
of administrative boards shall be
published in The City Record.
Rule 12. Sergeant-at-Arms. The
Council may appoint a Sergeant-atArms to be in attendance at meetings of Council. The Sergeant-atArms, under the direction of the presiding officer, shall preserve order
in the Council Chamber and adjoining rooms, and in the manner to be
prescribed by ordinance shall compel the attendance of absent members.
III. COMMITTEES OF COUNCIL
Rule 13. Standing Committees. Not
later than the fourth meeting of the
Council after its organization, the

6
President of Council shall appoint
one (1) standing committee of nine
(9) members and seven (7) standing
committees of seven (7) members
each. The first named member shall
be chair and the second named shall
be vice-chair. All committee appointments shall be made under this
Rule, including that of chair and
vice-chair. The vice-chair shall preside until the chair appears and
shall discharge all the duties and be
clothed with all the powers of the
chair during the chair’s absence. In
the absence of the chair and the
vice-chair and a quorum being present, a temporary chair shall be
selected by a majority vote of the
members present who shall preside
until the chair or vice-chair appears
and the temporary chair shall discharge all the duties and be clothed
with all the powers of the chair during the chair’s absence.
A. The nine member committee
and its subject matter is as follows:
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE shall
research, investigate, develop and
implement public policy and advocate for the financial stability and
operations of the City of Cleveland.
The Committee on Finance shall
oversee the Departments of Finance
and Law, and any processes and
policies that impact the City’s financial stability and operations. The
Finance Committee shall: review all
ordinances, resolutions and other
matters
pertaining
to
finances,
indebtedness,
appropriations,
the
payment of monies not provided for
by previous legislation, taxation, the
standardization
of
salaries
and
wages, union agreements, civil service, the pensioning of employees
and the sale, lease or purchase of
real estate; review and approve all
city financial expenditures and budgetary items along with all financial matters that pertain to the city;
review changes to the Codified Ordinances; review legislation regarding
city annexations, redistricting, and
charter amendments; review all matters relating to courts; review ordinances relating to licenses and
those imposing fines, penalties, forfeitures or imprisonment, printing
and advertising.
B. The seven member committees
and the subject matters that shall
be referred to them are as follows:
a. COMMITTEE ON UTILITIES
shall
research,
investigate
and
develop public policy and advocate
for public utilities and information
technology for the City.
The Committee on Utilities shall
oversee
the
operations
of
the
Department of Public Utilities and
the services that it provides, as well
as any legislation, operations and
policies that impact utilities and
their access and use; the Committee
shall ensure that all utility services
are being provided at a reasonable
cost and shall examine any increase
in service fees and rates when necessary.
The
Utilities
Committee
shall review the financial stability
and operation of the city’s public
utility enterprise funds and shall
review how Information Technology
is integrated into daily operations of
the City.

The City Record
b. COMMITTEE ON DEVELOPMENT, PLANNING AND SUSTAINABILITY shall research, investigate, and develop public policy and
advocate for residential and commercial development and land use
planning and sustainability for the
City.
The Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability shall be
referred all ordinances, resolutions
and other matters pertaining to the
Departments of Economic Development,
Community
Development,
Building and Housing and the City
Planning Commission, and shall
oversee these departments as well
as any operations and policies that
impact
planning,
sustainability,
development, housing and commercial activities in the City and the
greater Cleveland region. The Committee shall oversee all residential,
retail, commercial and industrial
development
and
redevelopment
activities in the City and ensure
that land use planning and zoning
utilize the highest and best uses of
the City.
c.
COMMITTEE
ON
HEALTH
AND
HUMAN
SERVICES
shall
research, investigate and develop
public policy and advocate for a
healthy environment for the City
and its residents.
The Committee on Health and
Human Services shall be referred all
legislation and all other matters pertaining to the Departments of Public Health and Aging. The Committee shall review any operations and
policies that impact the health of
the City’s residents, workers and
visitors; and shall oversee fiscal
expenditures that promote health
initiatives.
d. COMMITTEE ON SAFETY shall
research, investigate and develop
public policy and advocate for a
safe Cleveland.
The Committee on Safety shall
oversee the Department of Public
Safety, as well as all operations and
policies that impact the safety of
the City of Cleveland’s residents,
workers and visitors, and shall oversee all fiscal expenditures for the
Department of Public Safety. The
Committee also shall review all matters pertaining to the Community
Relations Board
e.
COMMITTEE
ON
TRANSPORTATION shall research, investigate and develop public policy and
advocate for world-class transportation systems for the City.
The Committee on Transportation
is responsible for overseeing the
Department of Port Control and any
legislation, operations and policies
that impact transportation in Cleveland, including Greater Cleveland’s
public transportation, bus, limousine
and taxicab operations, waterways
and infrastructure, and their impact
on commerce. The Committee shall
oversee all matters directly relating
to all city-owned airports, aviation
services and port activities, including harbors, rivers and lakes as
these pertain to travel and port commerce. The Committee shall review
the financial stability and operation

6

January 3, 2018
of the City‘s transportation enterprise funds, examine regional transportation policies of area-wide agencies such as GCRTA and NOACA
and how they impact the City; and
oversee planning and development
efforts for multi-modal transportation operations, including rail and
bikeways.
f. COMMITTEE ON MUNICIPAL
SERVICES
AND
PROPERTIES
shall
research,
investigate
and
develop public policy and advocate
for high-quality municipal services
and properties for the city.
The Committee on Municipal Services
and
Properties
shall
be
referred all legislation and other
matters pertaining to the Department of Public Works and the Office
of Capital Projects, and shall oversee any operations and policies that
impact municipal services and properties; shall oversee those matters
that pertain to public infrastructure
improvements,
including
roads,
bridges and sidewalk improvements;
recreation, parks and public green
space; shall oversee waste management and recycling; examine best
public
improvement
practices;
review the use of municipal bond
funds for capital improvement projects; and shall monitor and evaluate the quality of work done on public improvement projects.
g.
COMMITTEE
ON
WORKFORCE & COMMUNITY BENEFITS
shall
research,
investigate
and
develop public policy and advocate
for equity, empowerment and jobs
for the City and its residents.
The Committee on Workforce and
Community Benefits shall oversee
the Office of Equal Opportunity and
all operations and policies that
impact the City’s ability to promote
workforce development and community benefits for City residents. The
Committee shall: ensure that the
City promotes empowerment of citizens through education, training,
job creation and development; work
with area businesses to create a
working environment of justice and
equity; monitor compliance with
community
benefits,
agreements,
policies and procedures; help develop and keep a workforce that fulfills the needs of employers; review
education systems and curricula for
Cleveland’s citizens of all ages and
levels and advocate reforms.
Rule 13-1. Approval of Council of
Appointments by Mayor. Whenever
the approval of Council is required
for appointments by the Mayor, the
President of Council, upon request
of the Mayor for approval of any
appointment,
shall
immediately
appoint a select committee of five
(5) members to which shall be
referred the name of each person
whose appointment is submitted for
approval of Council. The select committee shall report to Council its recommendation and Council, as part of
the appropriate order of business,
shall proceed to vote upon the
approval of each appointment; the
question being “Shall the Council
approve the appointment by the
Mayor?” If a majority of all the
members elected to Council vote
yea, the Council shall approve such
appointment.

January 3, 2018
Rule 13-2. Member Pro Tempore.
In the event of the absence of a
member from a published scheduled
committee, the Council President,
upon the request of the chair of the
committee, may appoint a Councilmember to serve as a member pro
tempore for purposes of that committee meeting. The appointment by
the Council President of the member
to that committee shall expire upon
completion of that committee meeting. Upon appointing a member pro
tempore, the Council President shall
notify the members of Council of the
appointment and shall cause such
appointment to be reflected in The
City Record.
Rule 13-3. Removal of Members
from Committees. The President of
Council, may for cause at any time,
remove and replace any member or
members of any standing committee
established under Rule 13 or from
any special committee or committees.
Rule 13-4. Authority of Committee
Chair; Rules of Committees. The
Chairperson of a committee shall
maintain the order and decorum of
the committee hearing and otherwise have the responsibilities and
authority of a Presiding Officer as
set forth in Rule 8. The committee
chair shall enforce a time limit of
15 minutes on councilmembers for
discussion of a topic, which time
limit is subject to the discretion of
the Chair. Except in case of obvious
inconsistency
or
inapplicability,
committee hearings shall be governed by the rules applicable to
Council proceedings.
Rule 14. Committee Meetings. A
majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. Each
committee shall hold its regular
meetings at the time and place fixed
in the schedule, as prepared by the
President of Council and Clerk of
Council in conference with the
chairs of the several committees.
Rule 14-1. Meeting. A committee
meeting schedule shall be published
by the Clerk. Should the chair of a
committee find it necessary to hold
the meeting at another time and
place, the chair shall cause notice to
be given and posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the new
time fixed for the meeting. All committee meetings shall be open, and
a record of the attendance of members of the committee and the action
taken there, shall be kept by the
secretary of the committee in a
record provided for that purpose.
Such record shall be kept on file
with the Clerk of Council and open
to public inspection as other public
records. No legislation shall be
amended while in committee and it
shall be the duty of the committee
to
recommend
to
Council
the
approval, disapproval or amendment
of any legislation pending before
the committee. A majority of the
members of a committee shall be
necessary for the recommendation
of approval, disapproval or amendment of any legislation pending
before a committee. A committee
member shall not sign any legislation to recommend approval, disapproval or amendment if that committee member is absent from the

The City Record
committee during discussion of that
legislation. All other motions shall
require only a majority vote of the
members of committee present.
Rule
14-2.
Councilmember
Absences. Each absence of a committee member, not authorized by
the chair for good cause, or the
absence of the chair, not authorized
by the President of Council for good
cause, shall be deemed a violation
of the Rules of Council under Section 29 of the Charter, punishable by
a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00)
for
each
unauthorized
absence. For the purpose of this Subsection 14-2 but not for purposes of
voting on recommendations to legislation
the
discussion
of
which
occurs during the member’s actual
presence at committee, a committee
member or chair shall be deemed
absent if that committee member or
chair reports to the committee meeting later than fifteen (15) minutes
after the scheduled time for the
commencement of the meeting or
when, after the commencement of
the meeting, leaves the meeting,
except in case of necessity or emergency, without the authorization of
the chair or acting chair. Absence of
a member of a committee from three
(3) consecutive meetings, unless
authorized by the chair of such committee, may cause the removal of
such member from such committee
by the President of Council.
Rule 14-3. Committee Room Seating. Seats at the table in the committee room shall be reserved for
members of the committee, the
Mayor and administrative officials
having business before the committee, members of Council not members
of
the
committee,
persons
specifically invited by the chair or
by
a
vote
of
the
committee,
reporters, representatives of civic
organizations
and
of
organized
labor, and it shall be the duty of the
Clerk of committees to see to it that
the foregoing precedence of seating
is strictly followed.
Rule 15. Reports. No ordinance,
resolution, petition, or other matters
referred to a committee for action
shall be approved or disapproved
and reported out until it is first considered at a committee meeting regularly called as provided for in
these Rules and no committee shall
consider or hold a hearing on any
proposed legislation until it has
been introduced in Council and
referred to the committee. The chair,
upon motion of any member that
shall not require a second, shall put
the question of the recommendation
of approval or of approval when
amended. If a majority of the members of the committee vote affirmatively,
the
legislation
shall
be
reported immediately to Council as
“Recommended for Passage”; but if
a majority of the members of the
committee vote negatively on the
question, the legislation shall be
reported immediately to Council as
“Not Recommended for Passage”.
The vote on all matters before the
committee shall be recorded in the
minutes of the committee meeting.
When a majority of a committee has
reported, recommending or not recommending the passage, adoption or
approval of the legislation under

7

7
consideration, the minority may present a minority report. All such
reports shall be in writing and
signed by the members of the committee voting in favor of or against
the report.
Rule 16. Committee of the Whole.
Upon declaration by the Council
President without objection or by
motion of a Councilmember supported by a majority vote of Council, the
Council shall resolve itself into a
Committee of the Whole for the purpose of hearing from a person who
is not a member of the Council, or
for the purpose of considering business generally, or for the purpose
stated in the motion. When the
Council decides to go into Committee of the Whole, the regular officers shall continue to serve, without
objection,
otherwise
the
Council
shall appoint a Chair to preside, and
the presiding officer of the Council
shall leave the chair. The rules of
Council, in so far as practicable,
shall be observed in the Committee
of the Whole; however, a roll call of
yeas and nays shall not be in order.
Rule 16-1. Joint Committee. When
it is desired that legislation be considered by two or more standing
committees jointly, a reference may
be made by the President of Council to a joint committee comprised
of the membership of said standing
committees, which shall operate as
a single committee. A quorum of a
joint committee shall consist of a
majority of the members thereof,
counting membership in each committee separately, so that a member
of each of two or more committees
constituting the joint committee
shall be counted once for each committee on which he or she is a member.
A
majority
vote,
similarly
counted, shall be required for action
by such joint committee. The President of Council shall determine the
chair of the joint committee from
the chair of the standing committees
that make up the joint committee.
Rule 16-2. Subcommittee. When
determined to be in furtherance of
the legislative process, the chair of
a standing committee and the President of Council may designate certain members of the standing committee to form a subcommittee for
the purpose of examining matters
that are identified by the chair and
President at the time the subcommittee is formed. At the completion
of its work, the subcommittee shall
report its findings to the entire
standing committee or, in the discretion of the President of Council,
the entire Council.
IV. DUTIES, PRIVILEGES AND
DECORUM OF MEMBERS
Rule 17. Roll Call of Council.
Every member shall be seated within the “well” at the time of roll call,
otherwise the member shall not be
recorded as present except upon
order of Council. The Clerk shall
publish in The City Record the
names of the members present and
absent.
Rule 18. Duty to Vote. Every member present shall vote on all questions upon the call of the yeas and
nays, unless excused by the unanimous consent of the Council; except

8
that no member shall vote on any
question in which they are financially interested or which in any
way involves personal or private
rights. Any member present, unless
so excused, or excepted as above,
who refuses to vote upon any question relating to the city government,
upon which the member may vote,
when the yeas and nays are being
taken shall be guilty of contempt of
the Council, and may, for such contempt, be censured by a majority
vote of the Council or may be
expelled from the Council by a vote
of two-thirds of all the members of
the Council pursuant to Section 29
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland.
Rule 19. Yeas and Nays. On the
passage of every ordinance or resolution, and on the appointment of
every officer, the vote shall be
taken by yeas and nays, entered in
full upon the records and published
in the official journal. On any other
question, the yeas and nays shall be
entered upon the record on the
request of any member. Upon the
call of the yeas and nays, the Clerk
shall call the names of members
alphabetically and record the vote.
Rule 20. Change of Vote. Before
the announcement of the vote on
any question, the Clerk shall read
the vote of each member so taken
upon the demand of any member, at
which time any member on account
of error or for any other reason may
change his or her vote; but no member shall be permitted to change his
or her vote as recorded after the roll
call has been verified and the result
declared.
Rule 21. Recording of Vote of
Absent Member. Any member, having been unavoidably absent may at
the next meeting be permitted to
have their vote recorded upon any
question acted upon during such
absence; provided such vote shall
not change the result; and provided
further that such member shall not
be entitled to move a reconsideration of the question to be voted
upon.
Rule 22. Right of Floor. When any
member is about to address the
Council the member shall rise and
respectfully address the presiding
officer, and when recognized by the
chair shall confine any comments to
the question under debate, shall not
be impolite, discourteous or disrespectful toward any member of the
body, the administration or the public, and shall refrain from questioning or criticizing the motives of
another member, the administration
or a member of the public. When
two or more members ask recognition at the same time, the presiding
officer shall name the member who
is first to speak and the exercise of
such discretion by the presiding officer shall not be subject to appeal
under Rule 25.
Rule
23.
Time
Limitation
of
Speaking.
No
member
shall
be
allowed to speak for a longer time
than 4 minutes at any one time
without the permission of Council.
No member shall speak more than
once on the same legislation until
every other member desiring to
speak on that legislation shall have

The City Record
had an opportunity to do so. Neither
the Mayor nor any director may
speak longer than 4 minutes upon
the same motion, ordinance or question without the consent of Council.
Rule 24. Members Called to Order.
If any member in speaking or otherwise transgresses the rules of the
Council, the President shall call the
offending member to order. The
member so called to order shall
immediately take his seat unless
permitted
by
the
President
to
explain. Any member may, by raising the point of order, call the attention of the President to such transgression. The President, without
debate, shall decide the point of
order. Every such decision of the
President shall be subject to appeal
to the Council upon motion with a
second.
Rule 25. Right of Appeal. Any
member may appeal to the Council
from a ruling of the presiding officer. The member making the appeal
may briefly state the reason for the
same, and the presiding officer may
briefly explain the ruling; but there
shall be no debate on the appeal and
no other member shall participate in
the discussion. The presiding officer
shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the chair be sustained?” If a majority of the members present vote yea, the ruling of
the chair is sustained; otherwise it
is overruled.
Rule 26. Member May Read from
Books, etc. Any member while discussing a question, may read from
books, papers or documents any
matter pertinent to the subject
under consideration without asking
leave; provided, however, that such
reading shall be subject to and
included within the time limitation
prescribed in Rule 23.
Rule 27. Division of Question. If
the question contains two or more
divisible propositions, the presiding
officer may, and upon request of a
member, divide the same; but a
motion to strike out a provision and
insert a substitute is not divisible.
Rule 28. Personal Privilege. Any
member may rise to explain a matter personal to the member, and on
stating that it is a matter of personal privilege, the member shall be
recognized by the President, but
shall not discuss a question or issue
in such explanation. Such explanation shall not consume more than 2
minutes of time unless extended by
consent of the Council. Matters of
personal privilege shall yield only
to a motion to recess or adjourn.
Rule 29. No Person, Other Than
the Clerk and the Clerk’s Assistants,
Shall Be Permitted at the Clerk’s
Desk While the Yeas and Nays are
Being Taken. No person, other than
the Clerk and the Clerk’s assistants,
shall be permitted at the Clerk’s
desk while the yeas and nays are
being taken.

V. MOTIONS
Rule
30.
Purpose
and
Form.
Motions shall be used only to expedite the orderly transaction at the
business of Council and shall not be

8

January 3, 2018
substituted for resolutions or ordinances. The form of all motions
shall be “I move that” followed by
the substance of the motion. No second shall be required for any motion
except as specifically provided for
in a rule, but upon demand of any
member any motion shall be withdrawn by the maker before it has
been amended or voted upon. When
a motion is made the presiding officer shall state it before any debate
shall be in order. All motions that
have been entertained by the President of Council shall be entered
upon the minutes.
Rule 31. Precedence of Motions.
When a question is before the Council no motion shall be entertained
except the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

To adjourn.
To fix the hour of adjournment.
For the previous question.
To lay on the table.
To postpone to a day certain.
To postpone indefinitely.
To refer to a committee.
To amend.

These motions shall have precedence in the order indicated. The
motion to adjourn and the motion
for the previous question, shall be
put to a vote without debate; the
motion to fix the hour of adjournment shall be debatable only as to
the time of such adjournment; and
all other motions shall be debatable.
Rule 32. The Previous Question.
The motion for the previous question shall require a majority vote of
all members elected to Council; shall
be considered only once; may be
renewed after intervening business;
shall take precedence over all debatable questions and shall be in order
to prevent amendment of questions
that are not debatable. When the
previous question is moved and seconded by one other member, it shall
be put as follows: “Shall the main
question be now put?” There shall
be no further amendment or debate
but pending amendments shall be
put in their order before the main
question. If the question, “Shall the
main question be now put?” be
decided in the negative, the main
question remains before the Council.
Rule 33. Motion to Lay on the
Table. The motion to lay on the
table shall dispose finally of the legislation against which it is invoked
but a motion to lay a pending
amendment to an ordinance or resolution on the table shall not carry
the ordinance or resolution with it.
A motion to lay on the table shall
require a majority vote of all members elected to Council.
Rule 34. Motion to Postpone to a
Day Certain. A motion to postpone
to a day certain shall require a
majority vote of the members present; shall be subject to reconsideration; may be renewed after intervening business; shall be debatable
as to the propriety of the postponement but not upon the merits of the
legislation; and may be amended by
changing the date. Upon the arrival
of the date to which postponed the
legislation shall be considered in
the regular order of business of that
day.

January 3, 2018
Rule 35. Motion to Postpone Indefinitely. The motion to postpone
indefinitely shall have the same
effect as a motion to lay on the
table, and shall require a majority
vote of all members elected to Council. A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not be reconsidered; shall be
debatable and shall open the legislation to debate; may be renewed
after intervening business and may
not be amended or laid on the table,
and shall be subject to previous
question.
Rule 36. Reconsideration. After
the decision of any question, any
member who voted with the majority may move for a reconsideration
of any action at the same or the
next succeeding meeting, provided,
however, that a resolution authorizing or relating to any contract may
be reconsidered at any time before
the
final
execution
thereof.
A
motion to reconsider shall require a
majority vote of all the members
elected to Council. After a motion
for reconsideration has once been
acted upon, no other motion for
reconsideration of the same question
shall be made without unanimous
consent of the members present.
VI. ORDINANCES AND
RESOLUTIONS
Note: “The adoption of a resolution is the proper procedure for an
informal enactment providing for
the disposition of a particular item
of business, while the passage of an
ordinance is the proper procedure
for the enactment of a regulation of
a general or permanent nature.” (19
R.C. L. 895; 46 C.J. 519; 29 O.A. 386).
Rule 37. Introduction. Ordinances
and resolutions shall be introduced
in the Council in electronic, digital,
printed or written form, with the
name of the member introducing the
same endorsed thereon. No ordinance or resolution affecting the
zoning regulations or the construction of public improvements within
a particular ward shall be introduced in Council in the name of the
member of Council from such ward
except with that member’s written
permission prior to introduction, and
when the member’s name is followed by the words “By departmental request”, which sponsorship shall
not imply agreement with the purpose of such legislation. Ordinances
submitted by the initiative shall
have endorsed on them “Submitted
by Initiative Petition”.
Rule 37-1. Preparation of Legislation. In order that adequate time
may be given to the preparation of
legislation,
members
of
Council
shall present requests for legislation
in a timely manner, and not later
than 5:00 o’clock P.M. on the Friday
preceding the meeting at which
such legislation is to be introduced
for first reading, and not later than
5:00 o’clock P.M. on the Wednesday
preceding introduction of legislation
for passage under suspension of the
rules.
Rule 37-2. Request for Legislation.
All legislation shall have indicated
at the end the date of preparation
and the initials of the council member and preparer of the legislation;
and all legislation originating in

The City Record
administrative
departments
shall
contain in addition the name of the
head of the department or division
for whom prepared and the name of
the member of Council introducing
such legislation shall be followed by
the words “By departmental request”
in parentheses.
Rule 37-3. Request for Legislation
for Passage Under Suspension of the
Rules. The Clerk of Council shall
not accept a request for legislation
for passage on introduction under
suspension of the rules unless furnished sufficient copies of such legislation to provide each member of
Council, together with a like number of copies of a statement by the
Director of the requesting department
setting
forth
the
reasons
immediate action is required. A
request for legislation for passage
on introduction under suspension of
the rules at the last meeting prior
to the summer recess of Council or
at the final annual meeting of Council shall not be accepted by the
Clerk of Council unless the required
statement bears the approval of the
President of Council. To the extent
that circumstances permit all such
legislation shall be considered informally by at least one committee of
Council, to which such legislation
would otherwise be referred.
Rule 38. Form of Ordinances. The
enacting clause of all ordinances
shall be “Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland.” except
those submitted by Initiative petition, which shall be “Be it ordained
by the people of the City of Cleveland.” All ordinances before introduction shall be submitted electronically or digitally in a format provided by the Clerk. No ordinance or
resolution or section thereof shall be
revised or amended unless the new
ordinance or resolution contains the
entire ordinance or resolution, or
section revised or amended, and the
original ordinance, resolution, section, or sections so amended shall be
repealed.
Rule 39. Emergency Ordinances. If
any emergency ordinance or resolution fails to receive a two-thirds
affirmative vote of all members
elected to Council, such measure
shall cease to be before the Council
as an emergency measure and shall
have the standing that a measure
would have had if it had not been
read as an emergency measure.
Rule 40. Reference to Committee.
All ordinances and resolutions shall
be read by title on the day when
introduced, unless such reading is
dispensed with by a two-thirds vote;
and unless otherwise ordered by the
Council shall be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or committees, which reference shall be announced immediately by the Clerk. The committee
or committees to which the legislation is referred shall, after due consideration and at least one public
hearing, propose any amendments
with recommendations for approval
or disapproval. When so reported,
the ordinance or resolution shall,
unless otherwise ordered, be read a
second time and laid over until the
next meeting of the Council, when
the same shall be read a third time

9

9
and a vote taken thereon. The Council shall not act upon any ordinance
or resolution except a resolution of
condolence or one of an extreme
emergency nature, until it has been
referred to and reported upon by a
committee or committees of Council.
Rule 40-1. Reference Back to Committee.
Any
pending
legislation
may, by a vote of a majority of the
members elected to Council or by
declaration of the Council President
without objection, be referred back
to any committee to which it was
previously
referred
under
these
rules, or to any appropriate committee designated in the motion to
refer back. When referred back to a
committee, such legislation shall
have the same standing as it had at
the time when referred back.
Rule 41. Reference to More Than
One Committee. Whenever any pending matter is referred to more than
one committee for consideration and
report, the committees may consider
the matter in a joint session as a
joint committee, if the chairs of the
committees concerned consent. The
chair of the committee first named
shall preside at the joint sessions,
and each member of the joint committee shall have one vote for each
committee of which he or she is a
member composing the joint committee. A majority of the members
of each of the separate committees
shall constitute a quorum of such
committee and the vote shall be
taken by roll call of each of the separate committees constituting the
joint committee. Its report shall be
made in the same manner and under
the same rules as reports are made
by standing committees.
Rule 41-1. Relieving Committees.
Any committee to which an ordinance
or
resolution
has
been
referred under Rule 40 or referred
back under Rule 40-1, may be
relieved of further consideration of
such legislation by a motion duly
made and adopted by a two-thirds
vote of all members elected to Council or by the chair of the committee
to which the legislation has been
referred with the consent of the
Council President.
Rule 42. Three Readings. No ordinance or resolution shall be passed
until it has been read on three separate days; unless the reading on
three separate days has been dispensed with by a two-thirds vote of
all members elected to Council. The
final reading shall be in full unless
an electronic, digital, written or
printed copy of the measure is furnished to each member of the Council prior to the reading. Electronic,
digital, or printed copies of all first
reading ordinances and resolutions
to be introduced for passage and
adoption under suspension of the
rules and without reading on three
separate days shall be furnished to
the members prior to a vote being
taken on the ordinance or resolution. When it is desired to suspend
this and Rule 40 in order to permit
the passage of legislation upon
introduction the question on the
motion for such suspension shall be
as follows: “Shall the Charter and
statutory provisions and Rule 42
requiring reading on three separate
days and Rule 40 requiring reference to committees be dispensed

10
with and Ordinance No. ... (Resolution No. ...) be placed on final passage?” If two-thirds of all the members elected to Council vote yea, the
Charter, statutory and rule requirements requiring reading on three
separate days and reference to committees shall be suspended. As an
exception to the foregoing, resolutions of condolence and congratulatory resolutions shall be read by
title only and adopted viva voce or
by rising vote.
Rule 42-1. Copies Required for Suspension of Rule 42. No ordinance of
a general nature or imposing penalties which has not been referred to
a committee of Council, shall be
passed under suspension of the rules
unless an electronic, digital or written copy of such ordinance is furnished to each member prior to the
passage of such ordinance under
suspension of Rule 42.
Rule 43. Appropriation Ordinances.
Ordinances making appropriations
shall be confined to the subject of
appropriation. No money shall be
appropriated except by ordinance.
All ordinances for fixing a tax rate,
the appropriation of money, the
issuance of bonds, the transfer of
money to any fund, or the payment
of claims; and all resolutions and
ordinances whereby the city shall
become liable for the payment of
any money, shall be referred without debate to the finance committee
for consideration and report; unless
this requirement shall be suspended
by two-thirds of all the members
elected. The vote of each suspension
shall be taken by yeas and nays and
entered on the record.
Rule 44. Substitute Legislation.
Legislation dealing with the same
subject matter may be substituted
for any pending ordinance or resolution by a majority vote of all the
members elected to Council, upon
the recommendation of any committee to which such legislation has
been referred. Substitute legislation
shall be subject to all the provisions
of the Charter and rules applying to
ordinances on first reading, and the
legislation for which such substitute
is offered shall be laid upon the
table as a final disposition thereof.
Before accepting for introduction
any
substitute
legislation,
the
author of the original legislation
shall be given notice of the substitute legislation by the Clerk of
Council.
Rule 45. Amendments. It shall be
in order to amend an ordinance at
any time when not in the hands of
a committee; but if amended after
its second reading, it shall again be
read as the second reading thereof,
and laid over for further and final
action. A majority vote of all the
members elected to Council shall be
necessary for the adoption of an
amendment to any legislation pending before the Council.
Rule 46. Adoption. All ordinances
and resolutions shall require for
passage or adoption a majority vote
of all the members elected. The vote
on their adoption shall be taken by
yeas and nays and entered on the
records of the meeting except as
otherwise provided in these rules.

The City Record
Rule 47. Signing Ordinances and
Resolutions. All ordinances passed
and resolutions adopted by Council
shall be signed by the President and
presented immediately to the Mayor
by the Clerk.
Rule 48. Action on Mayor’s Veto.
When the Mayor refuses to sign an
ordinance or resolution or any part
of an ordinance or resolution and
returns the ordinance or resolution
to the Council with objections, pursuant to Section 37 of the Charter,
the Council shall, after at least one
week following the meeting at
which such vetoed ordinance or resolution is returned, proceed to reconsider the vetoed ordinance or resolution. After the adoption of the
motion to reconsider, the question
shall be stated as follows: “Shall
Ordinance No. (Resolution No.) be
passed (or adopted) notwithstanding the veto of the Mayor? Those
voting yea vote to override the
Mayor’s veto. Those voting nay vote
to sustain the Mayor’s veto.” If twothirds of all the members elected to
Council vote yea, such ordinance or
resolution vetoed by the Mayor shall
take effect without the Mayor’s signature.
VII. ADMINISTRATIVE
OFFICERS
Rule 49. Attendance Required. The
Mayor and the directors of all
departments shall be required to
attend the regular and special meetings of Council and shall be provided with seats on the floor of the
Council. They shall be required, at
any such meeting, to answer such
questions relating to the affairs of
the
city
under
their
respective
supervision and control as may be
put to them by any member of the
Council.
Rule 50. Reports of City Officers.
All ordinances, resolutions and communications pertaining to matters
that come under the supervision and
control of the Mayor may, in addition to being referred to the proper
committees, also be referred to the
respective
administrative
officers
for recommendation and report. Not
later than thirty (30) days after reference to the administrative officer
or officers as the case may be each
ordinance
or
resolution
referred
shall be returned to the Clerk of
Council with the endorsement of
each
administrative
officer’s
approval
or
disapproval
of
the
referred matter. The Clerk of Council shall rigidly enforce this rule.
Rule 51. Mandatory Referral of
Legislation. Mandatory referral of
legislation to the City Planning
Commission under Section 76-3 of
the Charter shall be deemed to
include the following matters:
1. Zoning or other regulations of
land use.
2. Acquisition or lease of land for
public uses.
3. Sale or lease of publicly owned
lands.
4.
Vacation
or
dedication
of
streets or alleys.
5. Street widening or street extensions.
6. Permits for private uses of
streets or public property.
7. Determining to proceed with
public improvements.

10

January 3, 2018
8. Requests for studies or plan
preparation.
9. Bond issues for capital improvements.
10. Housing.
A request for an additional thirty
(30) day period for further consideration may be granted by the President of Council if the application
for such extension is submitted to
the President before the expiration
of the thirty (30) day period allowed
by Section 76-3 of the Charter. No
further extension of time shall be
allowed except upon motion of a
member of Council adopted by a
majority vote of all the members
present. Such request shall be filed
with the Clerk of Council.
Rule 52. Mutilation of Legislation.
No alteration, change, erasure or
mark shall be made upon any piece
of legislation by any person except
the Clerk of Council and then only
pursuant to an amendment thereto
made by Council pursuant to Rule
45. Nothing shall be physically
attached to any piece of legislation
after introduction except the fiscal
certificate required by Section 106 of
the Charter nor shall any endorsement appear upon any legislation
except that of the director of the
requesting department or office. Pertinent data or reports may be filed
with legislation.
VIII. COUNCIL CHAMBER
Rule 53. Use of Council Chamber.
The Council Chamber shall be used
only for meetings of the Council or
Council committees, except where
the Council by vote authorizes its
use by persons other than city officials. The Clerk, with the written
approval of the President of Council, may permit other public officials
to use the Council Chamber on public business, when not in use by the
Council or committees.
Rule 54. Privileges of Floor. No
person except members of the Council, designated Council staff, officers
named in the rules, reporters and
persons invited by the President of
Council or by vote of the Council
shall be admitted within the “well”
of the Council chamber, and the
Sergeant-at-Arms shall cause this
rule to be rigidly enforced.
IX. RULES, SUSPENSION,
AMENDMENT AND OTHER
Rule 55. Suspension of Rules. Any
provision of these rules may be suspended at any meeting of the Council, by a majority vote of all the
members elected, except when a
greater number is required by law
or by the rules. The vote on any
such suspensions shall be taken by
yeas and nays and entered upon the
records.
Rule 56. Amending Rules. These
rules may be amended, or new rules
may be adopted by a majority vote
of all members elected to the Council, on the report of the committee
formed for such purpose.
Rule 57. Other Rules. Except as
herein otherwise provided, the proceedings of the Council shall be governed by the City Charter, the Codified Ordinances of the City of

January 3, 2018
Cleveland, and Robert’s Rules of
Order, and it shall be the duty of
the presiding officer to adhere to
and enforce such rules.

BOARD OF CONTROL
December 27, 2017
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, December 27,
2017 at 10:34 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors
Henderson,
Szabo,
Directors Cox, Gordon, McGrath, Acting Directors Jackson, Schmotzer,
Director McNamara, and Interim
Director Donald.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and West.
Others: Tiffany White Johnson,
Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
William Sonntag, Acting Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
On
motions,
the
resolutions
attached were adopted, except as
may be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 641-17.
By Director Davis.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 68-98, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
October 19, 1998, and Board of Control Resolution No. 401-01, adopted
on June 20, 2001, the City of Cleveland entered into City Contract No.
58174 with Camp Dresser, & McKee,
Inc. for programming services necessary to provide Plant Computer
Control System (PCCS) programmable logic controller, a human to
machine
interface
(HMI)
and
peripheral and ancillary equipment
programming,
configuration
and
supplementary services, and acquisition of GE Proficy software licenses, for the Plant Enhancement Program for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 68-98, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
October 19, 1998, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
94-99,
passed
on
March 1, 1999, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 680-05, adopted on
December 7, 2005, the City of Cleveland entered into City Contract No.
65332 with Washington Group International, Inc. for professional services for comprehensive programming of PCCS programmable logic
controller, a human to machine
interface and peripheral and ancillary equipment for the PCCS Phase
II project, and acquisition of additional GE Proficy software licenses,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2234-05, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on January
23, 2006, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1717-06, passed November 20,
2006, the City of Cleveland, through
the Director of Public Utilities,
entered into City Contract No. 68241
with Gray Matter Systems, LLC, for
an estimated quantity of services
necessary to support and maintain
through the year 2010 the GE Proficy Software, a Supervisory Control
and Data Acquisition (“SCADA”)
system, obtained under both City
Contracts Nos. 58174 and 65332, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities; and

The City Record
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
(“C.O.”), the City entered into contracts covering the years 2011-2017
with Gray Matter Systems, LLC, to
renew the necessary software licenses and to continue to obtain software support and maintenance services for the GE Proficy Software,
and the technical support and maintenance services for the PCCS and
SCADA systems, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, the City entered into a
contract with Gray Matter Systems,
LLC, under PO No. 2002 D2016-116 to
obtain software, software support,
maintenance services and licenses
for the GE Proficy Software, and
technical support and maintenance
services for the PCCS and SCADA
systems for one year starting October 26, 2016 in the amount of
$12,764.70, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities; and
Whereas, division (c) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
execute one or more license agreements for software needed to implement
or
maintain
a
previously
acquired software system directly
with software licensing firm; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with a software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain
the
software
system,
including but not limited to maintenance, repair, upgrades, enhancements and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
Gray Matter Systems, LLC to renew
the necessary software licenses and
to continue to obtain technical support and maintenance services for
the GE Proficy Software and the
various plants’ PCCS systems, for
one year starting January 1, 2018 for
the Division of Water, and for one
year starting October 26, 2017, for
the Division of Water Pollution Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid for license fees
and for maintenance and technical
support services to be performed
under the contract with Gray Matter
Systems, LLC for the one-year term
starting January 1, 2018, for the
Division of Water, shall not exceed
$144,345.16, and for the one-year
term starting October 26, 2017, for
the Division of Water Pollution Control, shall not exceed $1,745.60.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Henderson, Szabo, Directors Cox, Gordon, McGrath, Acting
Directors Jackson, Schmotzer, Director McNamara, and Interim Director
Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and West.
Resolution No. 642-17.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Apex Construction and
Management Company, Inc. for the

11

11
public improvement of the Joseph L.
Stamps
Service
Center
Improvements, Base Bid Items A through D,
and Optional Items 1 through 4, for
the
Office
of
Capital
Projects,
received on October 6, 2017 under
the authority of Ordinance No. 73314 passed June 9, 2014, upon a gross
price basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of $94,650.00
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of the Office of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into contract
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Apex Construction and Management
Group is hereby approved:
Subcontractor
Amount

CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

Imperial Mechanical
$3,000.00

FBE
3.2%

Tech Ready Mix
$3,000.00

MBE
3.2%

TAT Construction
$12,000.00

N/A
0.0%

E.R. Flynn Co., Inc.
$5,100.00

N/A
0.0%

Northern Ohio Lumber
$3,000.00

N/A
0.0%

Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Henderson, Szabo, Directors Cox, Gordon, McGrath, Acting
Directors Jackson, Schmotzer, Director McNamara, and Interim Director
Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and West.
Resolution No. 643-17.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of EnviroCom Construction,
Inc. for the public improvement of
the Thurgood Marshall Recreation
Center Bid Package 2, Architectural
and Mechanical Improvements, base
bid Items A through E, deduct Alternate Item 1 and add Alternate Item
2, and Optional Items A1 through
A7, for the Office of Capital Projects, received on November 10, 2017
under the authority of Ordinance No.
732-14 passed June 9, 2014, upon a
gross price basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
$411,000.00 is affirmed and approved
as the lowest responsible bid, and
the Director of the Office of Capital
Projects is authorized to enter into
contract with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
EnviroCom
Construction,
Inc.
is
hereby approved:
Subcontractor
Amount

CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

Frank Novak & Sons
$52,000.00

FBE
12.7%

M. Rivera Construction
$13,800.00

MBE
3.5%

Tucker Grubbs
$15,000.00

MBE
3.5%

The City Record

12
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Henderson, Szabo, Directors Cox, Gordon, McGrath, Acting
Directors Jackson, Schmotzer, Director McNamara, and Interim Director
Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and West.
Resolution No. 644-17.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of RWJ Wiring, Inc. for the
public improvement of the Glenville
Recreation Center Bid Package 2,
Architectural, Mechanical and Electrical Improvements, Base Bid Items
A through E, and Optional Items 1,
2, and 4 through 6, for the Office of
Capital Projects, received on October 13, 2017 under the authority of
Ordinance No. 732-14 passed June 9,
2014, upon a gross price basis for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of $505,994.00 is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of the
Office of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into contract with the
bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
RWJ
Wiring,
Inc.
is
hereby
approved:
Subcontractor
Amount

CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

DC Heating
$15,350.00

MBE
0.0%

P and C Supplies
TBD

MBE
0.0%

EM Painting
TBD

CSB
0.0%

The K Company
TBD

FBE
0.0%

United Electrical Systems
TBD

N/A
0.0%

Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Henderson, Szabo, Directors Cox, Gordon, McGrath, Acting
Directors Jackson, Schmotzer, Director McNamara, and Interim Director
Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and West.
Resolution No. 645-17.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of CATTS Construction,
Inc. for the public improvement of
Madison
Avenue
Rehabilitation
(West 117th Street to West Boulevard.), all bid items, for the Division
of Engineering and Construction,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects,
received on November 2, 2017, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 102416, passed by Cleveland City Council on November 14, 2016, upon a unit
price basis for the improvement, in
the
aggregate
amount
of
$2,576,895.94,
is
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into contract for the improvement with the
bidder.

Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by CATTS Construction,
Inc. for the above-mentioned public
improvement is approved:
Trafftech, Inc.
$264,530.95 — (10.3%)
Cuyahoga Fence, LLC.
$16,134.50 — (0.6%)
Ronyak Paving, Inc.
$353,336.00 — (13.7%)
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Henderson, Szabo, Directors Cox, Gordon, McGrath, Acting
Directors Jackson, Schmotzer, Director McNamara, and Interim Director
Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and West.
Resolution No. 646-17.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Valley Ford Truck, Inc.,
for an estimated quantity of Ford
passenger and police vehicle parts
and labor, all items, for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, for a
period of one year, beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
with two one-year renewal options,
received on September 28, 2017 under
the authority of Section No. 131.64 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount
to
$247,700.00
(Net),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Henderson, Szabo, Directors Cox, Gordon, McGrath, Acting
Directors Jackson, Schmotzer, Director McNamara, and Interim Director
Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and West.
Resolution No. 647-17.
By Director Cosgrove.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No.
007-21-128
located
on
Erin
Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Yvonne Young has proposed to the City to purchase and

12

January 3, 2018
develop the parcel for a yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Wad 3 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Yvonne Young
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 007-21-128 located
on 3440 Erin Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Henderson, Szabo, Directors Cox, Gordon, McGrath, Acting
Directors Jackson, Schmotzer, Director McNamara, and Interim Director
Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and West.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination
as
soon
as
the
commission has graded the papers.
There-after, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

The City Record

January 3, 2018
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
TUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2018
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 17-364: 1886 West 57th
Street (Ward 15)
B.R. Knez Construction, owner,
proposes to erect a new 18' x 44'
two story single family house with
a 20' x 20' detached garage in a B1
Two Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that the required interior side
yard shall not be less than 5.8' and
3' are proposed for dwelling.
2.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
states that open porches shall not
project less than 10 feet from sidewalk and the appellant is proposing
6 feet. (Filed December 7, 2017)
Calendar No. 17-365: 2074 West 44th
Street (Ward 3)
B.R. Knez Construction, owner,
proposes to construct a new 2.5 story
1,854
square
foot
single
family
house with a detached garage on a
3,750 square foot lot. The owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 357.09(b)(2)(A) which
states that no building shall be
erected less than ten feet from a
main building on an adjoining lot.
The proposed distance to main
building on the adjoining lot is 6.5
feet.
2. 341.02(b) which states that City
planning approval is required prior
to the issuance of a building permit.
(Filed December 7, 2017)
Calendar
No.
17-348:
11228
Harborview (Ward 15)
Dieter Sumerauer, owner, proposes
to build a two story garage addition
with second floor study/exercise
room to existing single family residence located on a 15,681.6 square
foot lot in an AA1 Limited One Family Residential District. The owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of Section 357.08(b)(1)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that the depth
of the required rear yard shall be
not less than the height of the main
building or in this case 31 feet and
a 5' foot rear yard is proposed.
(Filed November 21, 2017)
Calendar No. 17-366: 2087 Random
Road (Ward 6)
Stephen J. Bucchieri, owner, proposes to construct a new 12 unit
apartment building in a C1 MultiFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the required front yard setback
is 13 feet and 11' - 4" are proposed.
2. Section 357.13 which states that
condensers and a dumpster are not
permitted front yard encroachments
and the appellant is proposing 5
A/C condensers and one dumpster in
the front yard.

3. Section 357.04 which states that
in residential districts only a 4 foot
tall ornamental fence with 75%
opacity is permitted and a 5 foot 4
inch dumpster enclosure is proposed.
4.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the required rear yard 20
feet and 8 feet are proposed.
5. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area which in this case would be
7,560 square feet 17,800 square feet
are proposed. (Filed December 7,
2017)
POSTPONED FROM
NOVEMBER 13, 2017
Calendar No. 17-275: 2462 West 7th
Street (Ward 3)
Tim Ridgeley, owner, proposes to
construct an addition to an existing
single family dwelling in a B1 Two
Family Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that in a One family district
or in a two family district no interior side yard shall be less than five
(5) feet in width for a corner lot,
nor less than three (3) feet in width
for an interior lot, nor shall the
aggregate width of side yards on
the same premises be less than ten
(10) feet. However, the width of any
such interior side yard in no case
shall be less than one fourth (¼) the
height of the main building on the
premises.
Building
height
is
unknown. The overhang dimension,
gutter
board/gutter
location
is
unknown.
2. Section 357.09(b)(2)(A) which
states that no building shall be
erected less than ten feet from a
main building on an adjoining lot.
Distance to main building on adjoining lot is unknown. (Filed September 11, 2017 - No Testimony)
Second postponement made at the
request of the appellant. First postponement made at the request of the
City Planning Commission to allow
time for further review.
POSTPONED FROM
NOVEMBER 20, 2017
Appeal from Assessments
and Licenses
Calendar No. 17-317: Suspension of
Vendor Permit # LUVU17-0097 –
Zone 3 (Ward 3)
Christine Hill appeals under the
authority of Section 76-6(b) of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland and
Section 329.02(d) and Section 675 of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances
from the decision of the Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects to suspend
the vendor permit #LUVU17-0097
from October 1 through October 30,
2017 due to violations of Vendors
Rules and Regulations. (Filed October 18, 2017 - No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant due to a
scheduling conflict.
POSTPONED FROM
NOVEMBER 20, 2017
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 17-326: 2632 East 115th
Street (Ward 6)
The Meeting Place Learning Center,
owner,
appeals
under
the

13

13
authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from Notice of Violation Number V17036361 issued on
September 29, 2017 by the Cleveland
Department of Building and Housing for failure to comply with Section 327.02(c) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
there shall be no change, substitution or extension in the use of any
building
or
premises
until
the
required use permit and Certificate
of Occupancy has been issued by the
Division of Building and Housing.
(Filed October 27, 2017 - No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant due to a
scheduling conflict.
POSTPONED FROM
NOVEMBER 20, 2017
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 17-327: 2633 East 115th
Street (Ward 6)
The Meeting Place Church Inc.,
owner, appeals under the authority
of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the
City
of
Cleveland
and
Section
329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances from Notice of Violation
Number V17036092 issued on September 28, 2017 by the Cleveland
Department of Building and Housing for failure to comply with Section 327.02(c) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
there shall be no change, substitution or extension in the use of any
building
or
premises
until
the
required use permit and Certificate
of Occupancy has been issued by the
Division of Building and Housing.
(Filed October 27, 2017 - No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant due to a
scheduling conflict.
POSTPONED FROM
NOVEMBER 20, 2017
Calendar No. 17-313: 1769 West 52nd
Street (Ward 15)
Triban Investments, LLC., owner,
proposes to erect a 15' x 20' two
story frame fee simple single family
residence
with
an
attached
garage in an Residential Attached 3
Townhouse
District
(RA3).
The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 337.031(g) which states
that the Required Interior Side yard
is 10 feet and the appellant is
proposing 5 feet.
2. Section 337.031(g) which states
that the Required Rear Yard is 20
feet and the appellant is proposing
5 feet. (Filed October 13, 2017)
Calendar No. 17-314: 1767 West 52nd
Street (Ward 15)
Triban Investments, LLC., owner,
proposes to erect a 15' x 20' two
story frame fee simple single family
residence
with
an
attached
garage in an Residential Attached 3
Townhouse
District
(RA3).
The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 337.031(g) which states
that the Required Interior Side yard
is 10 feet and the appellant is
proposing 5 feet.

The City Record

14
2. Section 337.031(g) which states
that the Required Rear Yard is 20
feet and the appellant is proposing
5 feet. (Filed October 13, 2017)
Calendar No. 17-321: 5105 Franklin
Avenue (Ward 15)
Triban Investments, LLC., owner,
proposes to erect a 12.29' x 87' three
story frame fee simple single family
residence
with
an
attached
garage in an Residential Attached 3
Townhouse
District
(RA3).
The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 337.031(g) which states
that the Required Interior Side yard
is 10 feet and the appellant is
proposing 3 feet. (Filed October 13,
2017)
Calendar No. 17-322: 1765 West 52nd
Street (Ward 15)
Triban Investments, LLC., owner,
proposes to erect a 15' x 20' two
story frame fee simple single family
residence
with
an
attached
garage in an Residential Attached 3
Townhouse
District
(RA3).
The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 337.031(g) which states
that the Required Interior Side yard
is 10 feet and the appellant is
proposing 5 feet. (Filed October 13,
2017 - No Testimony)
Second postponement made at the
request of the Councilman to allow
for time for a Community Meeting.
First postponement made due to an
error in the address.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
TUESDAY, JANUARY 2, 2018
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Tuesday, January 2, 2018, the following appeals
were scheduled for hearing before
the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 17-357: 4302 Bailey
Avenue
B.R. Knez, owner, proposes to construct a new 2.5 story, 1,792 square
foot single family house with a
detached garage on a 3,750 square
foot lot in a B1 Two Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 17-363: 1700 Lorain
Avenue
Alex Cedeno, owner, proposes to
erect a 5,300 square foot single family house with an attached garage
on a 5,466 square foot lot in a C2
Local Retail Business District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

appeals

The following cases were POSTPONED:

parcels zoned Semi-Industry
General Industry.

Calendar
No.
17-358:
Sterling
Pettway
5809 Hough Avenue. Postponed to
February 12, 2018.

Calendar No. 17-355: 3051 East 87th
Street
93 Kinsman LLC., owner, proposes
to establish use for outside storage/stockpiling of dirt and rock on
parcels zoned Semi-Industry and
General Industry

Calendar
No.
17-359:
Sterling
Pettway
5813 Hough Avenue. Postponed to
February 12, 2018.
Calendar No. 17-360: Alpha Delivery
LLC.
2408 Holmden Avenue. Postponed
to February 5, 2018.

Calendar No. 17-356: 3053 East 87th
Street
93 Kinsman LLC., owner, proposes
to establish use for outside storage/stockpiling of dirt and rock on
parcels zoned Semi-Industry and
General Industry.

Calendar
No.
17-362:
9803
Lake
Avenue LLC.
9803-05 Lake Road. Postponed to
March 5, 2018.

The
following
DENIED:

The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, December 18, 2017 and the
decisions
were
adopted
and
approved on Tuesday, January 2,
2018:

Calendar No. 17-285: 9033 Holton
Avenue
Omens MC. Inc., owner, appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances from
Notice of Violation.

The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 17-318: 4010 East 116th
Street
L & C, owner, proposes to store
brick, concrete and dirt in a B3
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 17-334: 9202 Kinsman
Avenue
Burten, Bell, Carr, Development,
Inc., owner, proposes to erect a new
150 foot tall telecommunications
tower on a parcel located in a B3
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 17-345: 1879 East 40th
Street
Cleveland
Commerce
Center,
owner, proposes to demolish a building and establish a parking lot and
erect a fence in a C4 Semi-Industrial District.
Calendar No. 17-346: 3030 Superior
Avenue
Superior 31st, Inc., owner, and
Chia Chun Ivan Tsou, tenant, proposes to establish tattooing use in a
C4 Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 17-349: 6101 St. Clair
Avenue
Mr. and Mrs. Turk, owners, and
Stan
Green,
tenant,
propose
to
change the use from gas station to
minor auto repair in a C1 Local
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 17-352: 2985 East 87th
Street
93 Kinsman LLC., owner, proposes
to establish use for outside storage/stockpiling of dirt and rock on
parcels zoned Semi-Industry and
General Industry.

were

Calendar No. 17-353: 2989 East 87th
Street
93 Kinsman LLC., owner, proposes
to establish use for outside storage/stockpiling of dirt and rock on
parcels zoned Semi-Industry and
General Industry.

None.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.

and

appeal

was

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
Ohio
Environmental
Protection
Agency (OEPA) has posted two
Public Notices about the issuance of
permits to discharge to State waters
under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination
System
(NPDES) Permit Program.
Public Notice No. 17-12-017 covers
the facility where the discharge
occurs,
Northeast
Ohio
Regional
Sewer District’s Westerly Wastewater Treatment Center at 5800 W.
Memorial Shoreway, in Cleveland.
Public Notice No. 17-12-018 covers
the facility where the discharge
occurs,
Northeast
Ohio
Regional
Sewer District’s Easterly Wastewater Treatment Center at 14021
Lakeshore Blvd., in Cleveland.
For
more
information,
go
to
www.epa.ohio.gov/dsw/permits/indi
viduals/draftperm.aspx#178255132nedo
December 13, 2017, December 20, 2017,
December 27, 2017, January 3, 2018,
January 10, 2018

were

None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

January 3, 2018

Calendar No. 17-354: 2987 East 87th
Street
93 Kinsman LLC., owner, proposes
to establish use for outside storage/stockpiling of dirt and rock on

14

PUBLIC NOTICE
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
OF THE CITY RECORDS
COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND
Notice is hereby given, in accordance with Ohio Revised Code Section 121.22(F) and Cleveland Codified Ordinances Section 167.01(a),

The City Record

January 3, 2018
that the City Records Commission of
the City of Cleveland will hold a
public meeting on Tuesday, January
9, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., in the City’s
Law Department located at Room
106 of Cleveland City Hall, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, for the
purpose of reviewing and considering the rules and procedures of the
City Records Commission, the scheduling of the semi-annual meetings
for 2018 and any other business with
respect to records retention and disposal requests and questions.
December 27, 2017, January 3, 2018

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY of CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.

Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

15
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018
File No. 180-17 — 2018 Citywide Lumber
Materials, Equipment and Supplies
for various Divisions, Department
of Finance, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 108-17, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
February 13, 2017.
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONMANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018 AT 1:30
P.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL, 601
LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114, ROOM 18.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES, CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
December 27, 2017 and January 3, 2018

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

NO MEETINGS

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Glenville Recreation Center Architectural, Mechanical and Electrical Improvements — per
Ord. 732-14 to RWJ Wiring, Inc. (BOC Res. 644-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Joseph L. Stamps Service Center Improvements — per Ord. 733-14 to Apex Construction and
Management Company, Inc. (BOC Res. 642-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Avenue Rehabilitation (West 117th St. to West Blvd.) — per Ord. 1024-16 to CATTS
Construction, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 645-17) . . . . . . . . .
Thurgood Marshall Recreation Center Architectural and Mechanical Improvements — per Ord.
732-14 to EnviroCom Construction, Inc. (BOC Res. 643-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Erin Avenue, 3440 (Ward 3) — PPN 007-21-128 — Yvonne Young (BOC Res. 647-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Madison Avenue Rehabilitation (West 117th St. to West Blvd.) — per Ord. 1024-16 to CATTS
Construction, Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 645-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Erin Avenue, 3440 (Ward 3) — PPN 007-21-128 — Yvonne Young (BOC Res. 647-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 3)
Erin Avenue, 3440 (Ward 3) — PPN 007-21-128 — Yvonne Young (BOC Res. 647-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Ford Passenger and Police Vehicle Parts and Labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Valley Ford
Truck, Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 646-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

15

The City Record

16

January 3, 2018

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
GE Proficy Software and PCCS System license fees and support services —
per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Gray Matter Systems, LLC — Divisions of Water, Water
Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 641-17). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Glenville Recreation Center Architectural, Mechanical and Electrical Improvements — per
Ord. 732-14 to RWJ Wiring, Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 644-17) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Joseph L. Stamps Service Center Improvements — per Ord. 733-14 to Apex Construction and
Management Company, Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 642-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Avenue Rehabilitation (West 117th St. to West Blvd.) — per Ord. 1024-16 to CATTS
Construction, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction, Office of
Capital Projects (BOC Res. 645-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thurgood Marshall Recreation Center Architectural and Mechanical Improvements — per Ord.
732-14 to EnviroCom Construction, Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 643-17) . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
GE Proficy Software and PCCS System license fees and support services —
per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Gray Matter Systems, LLC — Divisions of Water, Water
Pollution Control (BOC Res. 641-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Ford Passenger and Police Vehicle Parts and Labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Valley Ford
Truck, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 646-17). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Ford Passenger and Police Vehicle Parts and Labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Valley Ford
Truck, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 646-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Water Division
GE Proficy Software and PCCS System license fees and support services —
per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Gray Matter Systems, LLC — Division of Water Pollution
Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 641-17). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
GE Proficy Software and PCCS System license fees and support services —
per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Gray Matter Systems, LLC — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 641-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bailey Avenue, 4302 (Ward 3) — B.R. Knez, owner — appeal heard on 1/2/18 (Cal. 17-357) . . . . .
East 116th Street, 4010 (Ward 2) — L & C, owner — appeal granted and adopted on 1/2/18
(Cal. 17-318) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 40th Street, 1879 (Ward 7) — Cleveland Commerce Center, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 1/2/18 (Cal. 17-345) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 87th Street, 2985 (Ward 6) — 93 Kinsman LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/2/18 (Cal. 17-352). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 87th Street, 2987 (Ward 6) — 93 Kinsman LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/2/18 (Cal. 17-354). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 87th Street, 2989 (Ward 6) — 93 Kinsman LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/2/18 (Cal. 17-353). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 87th Street, 3051 (Ward 6) — 93 Kinsman LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/2/18 (Cal. 17-355). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 87th Street, 3053 (Ward 6) — 93 Kinsman LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/2/18 (Cal. 17-356). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holmden Avenue, 2408 (Ward 14) — Alpha Delivery LLC, owner, and Maedi Hafez, prospective
purchaser — appeal postponed to 2/5/18 on 1/2/18 (Cal. 17-360) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holton Avenue, 9033 (Ward 6) — Omens MC Inc., owner — appeal denied and adopted on
1/2/18 (Cal. 17-285). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 5809 (Ward 7) — Sterling Pettway, owner — appeal postponed to 2/12/18 on
1/2/18 (Cal. 17-358). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 5813 (Ward 7) — Sterling Pettway, owner — appeal postponed to 2/12/18 on
1/2/18 (Cal. 17-359). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Avenue, 9202 (Ward 6) — Burten, Bell, Carr, Development, Inc., owner — appeal
granted and adopted on 1/2/18 (Cal. 17-334) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Road, 9803-05 (Ward 15) — 9803 Lake Avenue LLC, owner — appeal postponed to 3/5/18
on 1/2/18 (Cal. 17-362) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 1700 (Ward 17) — Alex Cedeno, owner — appeal heard on 1/2/18 (Cal. 17-363). .

16

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

January 3, 2018

The City Record

17

St. Clair Avenue, 6101 (Ward 10) — Mr. and Mrs. Turk, owners, and Stan Green, tenant —
appeal granted and adopted on 1/2/18 (Cal. 17-349) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Superior Avenue, 3030 (Ward 7) — Superior 31st, Inc., owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/2/18 (Cal. 17-346) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Harborview, 11228 (Ward 15) — Dieter Sumerauer, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/16/18
(Cal. 17-348) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Random Road, 2087 (Ward 6) — Stephen J. Bucchieri, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/16/18
(Cal. 17-366) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 44th Street, 2074 (Ward 3) — B.R. Knez Construction, owner — appeal to be heard on
1/16/18 (Cal. 17-365). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 57th Street, 1886 (Ward 15) — B.R. Knez Construction, owner — appeal to be heard
on 1/16/18 (Cal. 17-364) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

City Council
Britt, Patricia J. — City Clerk / Clerk of Council — Oath of Office. (F 3-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kelley, Kevin J. — President of Council — Oath of Office ( Ward 13 ). (F 2-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17 — Oath of Office ( Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 17). (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rules of Council, 2018-2021 Term — Oath of Office. (F 4-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

City of Cleveland Bids
Citywide Lumber Materials, Equipment and Supplies (2018) — Department of Finance — per
Ord. 108-17 — bid due January 17, 2018 (advertised 12/27/2017 and 1/3/2018) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Clerk of Council
Britt, Patricia J. — City Clerk / Clerk of Council — Oath of Office. (F 3-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Rules of Council, 2018-2021 Term — Oath of Office. (F 4-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Oath of Office
Britt, Patricia J. — City Clerk / Clerk of Council — Oath of Office. (F 3-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Kelley, Kevin J. — President of Council — Oath of Office ( Ward 13 ). (F 2-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17 — Oath of Office ( Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 17). (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 01
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 02
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 03
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 04
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 05
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 06
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 07
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 08
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 09
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

17

The City Record

18

January 3, 2018

Ward 10
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 11
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 12
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 13
Kelley, Kevin J. — President of Council — Oath of Office ( Ward 13 ). (F 2-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 14
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 15
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 16
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

Ward 17
Members, 2018-2021 — Wards 1-17. (F 1-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4

18

