The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Thirty-First, Two Thousand and Eighteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

17

Board of Control

17

Civil Service

19

1 Joseph T. Jones

Board of Zoning Appeals

20

2 Kevin L. Bishop
3 Kerry McCormack

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
22

4 Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr.

Public Notice

23

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

23

6 Blaine A. Griffin

City of Cleveland Bids

24

7 Basheer S. Jones

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

25

Committee Meetings

30

Index

30

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Anthony T. Hairston
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Jasmin Santana
15 Matt Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones...................................................4691 East 177th Street
44128
Kevin L. Bishop...............................................11729 Miles Avenue, #5
44105
Kerry McCormack ..............................................1429 West 38th Street
44113
Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr. ........................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44115
Blaine A. Griffin.........................................1810 Larchmere Boulevard
44120
Basheer S. Jones...................................................1383 East 94th Street
44106
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Anthony T. Hairston .....................................................423 Arbor Road
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Jasmin Santana......................................................3535 Marvin Avenue
44109
Matt Zone ............................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Sharon Dumas, Interim Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Matt Gray, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Duane Deskins, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Prevention, Intervention and
Opportunity for Youth and Young Adults
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – _________________ Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
OFFICE OF QUALITY CONTROL AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT – Sabra
T. Pierce-Scott, Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Kimberly Roy-Wilson,
Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Robert Kennedy, Director, Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Kim Johnson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Merle Gordon, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – David Hearne, Interim Commissioner
Environment – Brian Kimball, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Persis Sosiak, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Interim Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Louise Jackson, Interim Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Joy Anderson, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –James Greene, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ayonna Blue Donald, Interim Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole West, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – David Ebersole, Interim Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Mary McNamara, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Grady Stevenson, Interim Director,
Mayor Frank G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., ViceChairman, Council Member Kevin L. Bishop, Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras,
Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary Johnson, Sr.,
Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa Ryan, Council
Member Jasmin Santana, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Rev. Gregory E. Jordan, President; Michael
Flickinger, Vice-President; Barry A. Withers, Interim Secretary; Members: Daniel J.
Brennan, India Pierce Lee.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Henry Bailey, Myrline Barnes, Kelley Britt, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Public Utilities Director Robert L. Davis; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director;
_______________, Chair; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Council
Member Kerry McCormack._________________, ___________________.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – _____________, Chair; Genesis O. Brown, Daniel Conway,
Robert L. Render.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Julie Trott, Chair; Giancarlo
Calicchia, Vice Chair; Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Robert
Strickland, Donald Petit, Secretary, Council Member Basheer S. Jones, Matthew L.
Spronz; __________________, _________________, ________________.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Michelle D. Earley
14-C
Judge Pinkey S. Carr
15-C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
13-A
Judge Emanuella Groves
14-B
Judge Lauren C. Moore
15-A
Judge Michael L. Nelson, Sr.
12-A
Judge Ann Clare Oakar
14-A
Judge Ronald J.H. O’Leary (Housing Court Judge)
13-B
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13-D
Judge Suzan M. Sweeney
12-C
Judge Jazmin Torres-Lugo
13-C
Judge Shiela Turner McCall
12-B
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14-D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Timothy
Lubbe – Housing Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda – Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief
Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

Vol. 105

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018

No. 5434

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2018-2021
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Griffin
(CHAIR),
McCormack
(VICECHAIR), Conwell, B. Jones, Hairston, Santana, Zone.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR), Bishop, Brancatelli, Hairston, J. Jones, Kazy.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley
(CHAIR),
Zone
(VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell,
Griffin,
Keane,
McCormack.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, B.
Jones, Keane, McCormack.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Kazy
(VICECHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, McCormack, Polensek, Santana.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Conwell
(CHAIR), Cleveland (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Griffin, B. Jones, J. Jones,
Kazy.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone (CHAIR), Polensek (VICECHAIR), Griffin, Kazy, B. Jones, J.
Jones, Santana.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor’s Appointments Committee:
Kazy (CHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Kelley.
Operations Committee: McCormack
(CHAIR), Griffin, Keane, Kelley,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Polensek.

Kelley
Hairston,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 29, 2018
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:00 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.

Council Members present: Kevin
L. Bishop. Dona Brady, Anthony
Brancatelli, Kevin Conwell, Blaine
A. Griffin, Anthony T. Hairston,
Kenneth L. Johnson, Basheer S.
Jones, Joseph T. Jones, Brian Kazy,
Kevin J. Kelley, Martin J. Keane,
Kerry
McCormack,
Michael
D.
Polensek, Jasmin Santana, and Matt
Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G.
Jackson,
Interim
Chief
of
Staff/Director Sharon Dumas, Chief
Operating Officer Darnell Brown,
Chief
of
Regional
Development
Edward W. Rybka, Media Relations
Director Dan Williams, Chief of Sustainability Matt Gray, Chief of Public Affairs Natoya Walker-Minor,
Chief of Prevention, Intervention
and Opportunity for Youth and
Young Adults Duane Deskins, and
Directors Langhenry, Davis, Spronz,
Gordon, McGrath, Cox, Jackson, Donald, West, Ebersole, Stevenson, Collier, McNamara, Withers, Burrows
and Pierce Scott.
MOTION
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.

intent to apply to Ohio Housing
Finance Agency for multifamily
funding programs for the development known as Kenmore Gardens
and Kenmore Village, on scattered
sites in Cleveland, Ohio, including
1634-1636 East 93rd Street, 1784 East
93rd Street, 1795-1801 East 93rd
Street, 1854-1856 East 96rd Street,
1298-1406
Ansel
Road,
1658-1660
Crawford Avenue, 8512-8515 Decker
Avenue, 9500-9508 Edmunds Avenue,
8711-8713 Harkness Avenue, 94079419 Lamont Avenue, 9215-9221 Rosalind Avenue, 8704-8712 Superior
Avenue,
8801-8811
Wade
Park
Avenue,
8901-8919
Wade
Park
Avenue,
9101-9123
Wade
Park
Avenue. Received.
File No. 137-18.
From Khrys Shefton, Director of
real Estate Development, Famicos
Foundation. Notice of plans to apply
to Ohio Housing Finance Agency for
multifamily funding programs for
the development known as Circle
North Lease-Purchase Homes, on
scattered sites in Cleveland, Ohio,
including 1389 East 109th Street,
1373 East 110th Street, 1399 East
110th Street, 1367 East 111th Street,
1375 East 111th Street, 1388 East
111th Street, 1392 East 111th Street,
1415 East 111th Street (two parcels),
1457
East
112th
Street,
10925
Churchill Avenue, 10930 Churchill
Avenue, 10602 Lee Avenue, 10706 Lee
Avenue,
10807
Orville
Avenue.
Received.
File No. 138-18.
January 29, 2018
Allen Dreyer
Deputy Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Mr. Dreyer:
You are requested, without objection of Cleveland City Council, to
serve as Clerk of Council Pro Tempore for all matters requiring the
Clerk’s signature from January 29
through January 30, 2018.
Your assistance is appreciated.

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Bishop, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Brady.

Sincerely,
Kevin J. Kelley,
Council President
Received.
OATH OF OFFICE

COMMUNICATIONS
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Keane
(VICE-CHAIR),
Bishop,
Conwell,
Johnson, J. Jones, Santana.

File No. 111-18.
From Kevin P. Hudson, Project
Manager, Levin Group, Inc. Notice of

103

File No. 136-18.
Louise Jackson, Interim Director
of
Community
Development.
Received.

The City Record

4
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 112-18.
RE: #14374151125. New License
Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican
Grill of Colorado LLC, Northeast
Corner of Clifton Blvd. and West
117th Street (Ward 15). Received.
File No. 113-18.
RE: #1897646. Stock Application,
D1 D2 D3 D3A D6. Daileys, Inc.,
14222 Lorain Avenue (Ward 16).
Received.
File No. 114-18.
RE: #14374151015. New License
Application, D5. Chipotle Mexican
Grill of Colorado LLC, 16729 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 17). Received.
File No. 115-18.
RE: #1327823. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2. Norma L.
Castro, 2886 West 25th Street (Ward
14). Received.
File No. 116-18.
RE: #4153130. Transfer of Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3 D3A
D6. Il Venetian LLC, 127 Public
Square (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 139-18.
RE: #8922479. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5. Throwbacks
Lorain LLC, 16612 Lorain Avenue
(Ward 17). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 140-18 — Emmanuel Jackson “Boulou” Gohlstin.
Res. No. 141-18 — James F. Goggin.
Res. No. 145-18 — Glenda Stevenson.
Res. No. 146-18 — Mary Ann Daum.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 142-18 — Father Eric
Orzech – “Good Joe Award”.
Res. No. 143-18 — Deacon Michael
Poindexter.
Res. No. 144-18 — Associate Pastor Lowell Sawyer.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 118-18.
By
Council
Member
Basheer
Jones.
An emergency ordinance designating the Patterson-Sargent Company Canned Paint Warehouse as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the PattersonSargent
Company
Canned
Paint
Warehouse as a landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of the Patterson-Sargent
Company
Canned
Paint Warehouse has been properly
notified and has consented in writing to the proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Patterson-Sargent
Company
Canned

Paint Warehouse as a landmark and
has set forth certain findings of fact
constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Patterson-Sargent Company Canned Paint Warehouse whose street address in the
City of Cleveland is 3400 Hamilton
Avenue
N.E.,
Cuyahoga
County
Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number
is 102-13-018, and is also known as
the following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio and known as being all of
Sublots Nos. 94, 95, 96, 97, 98 and
part of Sublot No. 93 in Leonard
Case’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 146 to 153
Inclusive, as shown in the recorded
plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 31
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southeasterly
line of Hamilton Avenue, N.E., at
the most Westerly corner of said
Sublot No. 98;
Thence Northeasterly along the
Southeasterly
line
of
Hamilton
Avenue, N.E., to the most Westerly
corner of land conveyed to The
Cleveland and Pittsburg Railroad
Company by deed dated January 31,
1912, and recorded in Volume 1381,
Page
407
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence Southeasterly along the
Southwesterly line of land so conveyed and along the Southwesterly
line of The Cleveland and Pittsburgh Railroad Company’s Right-ofWay to the Northwesterly line of
Krause Court, N.E.;
Thence Southwesterly along the
Northwesterly line of Krause Court,
N.E., 400 feet to the most southerly
corner of said Sublot No. 98;
Thence Northwesterly along the
Southwesterly line of said Sublot No.
98, 156.75 feet to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

104

January 31, 2018
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 119-18.
By Council Member Santana.
An emergency ordinance designating the Astrup Awning Company
Complex as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Astrup
Awning Company Complex as a
landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of the Astrup
Awning Company Complex has been
properly notified and has consented
in writing to the proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Astrup
Awning Company Complex as a
landmark and has set forth certain
findings of fact constituting the
basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Astrup Awning
Company
Complex
whose
street
address in the City of Cleveland is
2937 West 25th Street, Cuyahoga
County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel
Numbers are 008-05-001 Thru 007
inclusive, 008-05-057 Thru 061 inclusive, 008-05-107, 008-05-111, and 108-05114, and is also known as the following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 68,
and as shown by un-recorded Consolidation for The Astrup Company
as
approved
by
the
Cleveland
Department
of
Engineering
and
Construction on December 15, 1983,
Map number A-254, being bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the Easterly line of West
25th Street (66 feet wide) (Formerly Pearl Road) and the Southerly
line of Seymour Avenue S.W. (60
feet wide);
Thence
Due
East
along
said
Southerly line of Seymour Avenue
S.W., about 208.21 feet to a point;
Thence Due South at right angles,
about 139.75 feet to a point;
Thence S 89 degrees 36' 38" E,
about 185.69 feet to an I.P.;
Thence S 5 degrees 38' 9" W,
about 189.89 feet to an I.P. in the
Northerly line of Castle Avenue S.W.
(40 feet wide) (formerly Warden
Street);
Thence N 84 degrees 47' 41" W
along said Northerly line of Castle
Avenue S.W., about 405.85 feet to an
I.P. at its intersection with said
Easterly line of West 25th Street;
Thence N 5 degrees 38' 09" E
along said Easterly line of West
25th Street, about 294.58 feet to the
place of beginning be the same,
more or less but subject to all legal
highways.

January 31, 2018
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 120-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 192.57 to 192.72, relating to the collection and administration of net profit taxes.
Whereas, in House Bill (H.B.) 49
of the 132nd General Assembly, the
State’s general appropriations bill
for the biennium, includes Section
803.100 purporting to require that
municipalities, on or before January
31, 2018, adopt certain municipal
income tax provisions that are also
adopted within H.B. 49 to authorize
State officials to collect and administer municipal net profits taxes;
and
Whereas, Section 803.100 of H.B. 49
references and relies upon Section
718.04(A) of the Ohio Revised Code,
which purports to make municipal
income taxing authority conditional
upon a municipality’s adoption of
code sections as dictated by the
State; and
Whereas, although the municipal
income tax provisions of H.B. 49,
and Section 718.04(A) of the Ohio
Revised Code, violate the Home
Rule Amendment, the City nevertheless is compelled to adopt H.B.
49’s municipal income tax provisions, on or before January 31, 2018,
to avoid any doubt or taxpayer challenge as to its ability to impose a
municipal income tax under the
terms of Section 803.100 of H.B. 49
and Section 718.04(A) of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, the City is a party to
ongoing litigation seeking a declaration that the H.B. 49 municipal
income
tax
provisions,
Section
718.04(A) of the Ohio Revised Code,
and other provisions of Ohio law
that usurp the powers of local selfgovernment
are
unconstitutional,
and to enjoin all actions by state
officials to implement the H.B. 49
municipal income tax provisions;
and
Whereas, the City, by enacting
this Ordinance, does not concede the
legality
of
H.B.
49’s
municipal
income
tax
provisions,
Section
718.04(A) of the Ohio Revised Code,
or any other law that is subject to

The City Record
the suit in which the City is participating, and reserves its right to
continue prosecution of that lawsuit;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby expressly finds and determines
that it does not concede the legality of H.B. 49’s municipal income tax
provisions; Section 803.100 of H.B. 49;
Section
718.04(A)
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code; or any other law that
is the subject of the action pending
in Case Number 2017 CV 10258 in the
Franklin County Court of Common
Pleas, and that the City reserves its
rights to continue its participation
in and prosecution of said litigation,
and any other litigation challenging
the
State’s
authority
to
dictate
municipal tax collection and administration, and that adoption of this
Ordinance shall not prejudice the
claims of the City therein.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
Section 1 of this ordinance, the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, are supplemented by enacting
new Sections 192.57 to 192.72 to read
as follows:
Section 192.57 Filing Net Profit
Taxes; Election to be Subject to Provisions of Chapter
(a) A taxpayer may elect to be
subject to Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of
the Codified Ordinances in lieu of
the provisions set forth in the
remainder of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, upon the taxpayer’s election, both of the following shall
apply:
(1) The state tax commissioner as
defined in section 718.01 of the
Revised Code shall serve as the sole
administrator of the municipal net
profit tax levied pursuant to this
Chapter for which the taxpayer as
defined in Section 192.58(c) of the
Codified Ordinances is liable for the
term of the election;
(2) The tax commissioner shall
administer the tax pursuant to sections 718.80 to 718.95 of the Revised
Code, Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of the
Codified Ordinances, and any applicable provision of Chapter 5703. of
the Revised Code
(b)
(1) A taxpayer shall make the initial election on or before the first
day of the third month after the
beginning of the taxpayer’s taxable
year by notifying the tax commissioner and the City, on a form prescribed by the tax commissioner.
(2)
A. The election, once made by the
taxpayer, applies to the taxable
year in which the election is made
and to each subsequent taxable year
until the taxpayer notifies the tax
commissioner and the City of its termination of the election.
B. A notification of termination
shall be made, on a form prescribed
by the tax commissioner, on or
before the first day of the third
month of any taxable year.
C. Upon a timely and valid termination of the election, the taxpayer
is no longer subject to Sections
192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances, and is instead subject to the

105

5
provisions set forth in the remainder of this chapter.
(c) The tax commissioner shall
enforce
and
administer
Sections
192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances. In addition to any other
powers conferred upon the tax commissioner by law, the tax commissioner may:
(1) Prescribe all forms necessary
to administer those sections;
(2) Adopt such rules as the tax
commissioner finds necessary to
carry out those sections;
(3) Appoint and employ such personnel as are necessary to carry out
the duties imposed upon the tax
commissioner by those sections.
(d) The tax commissioner shall
not be considered a tax administrator, as that term is defined in section 718.01 of the Revised Code and
Section 192.06 of the City Codified
Ordinances.
Section 192.58 Definitions
If a term used in Sections 192.57
to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances
that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter is used in a comparable context in both the laws of the United
States relating to federal income tax
and in Title LVII of the Revised
Code and the use is not consistent,
then the use of the term in the laws
of the United States relating to federal income tax shall have control
over the use of the term in Title
LVII of the Revised Code, unless the
term is defined in Chapter 5703. of
the Revised Code, in which case the
definition in that chapter shall control. Any reference in this chapter
to
the
Internal
Revenue
Code
includes other laws of the United
States related to federal income
taxes. If a term is defined in both
this section and Section 192.06 of the
Codified Ordinances, the definition
in this section shall control for all
uses of that term in Sections 192.58
to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances.
As used in Sections 192.58 to 192.72
of the Codified Ordinances only:
(a) Municipal taxable income”
means
income
apportioned
or
sitused to the municipal corporation
under Section 192.59 of the Codified
Ordinances, as applicable, reduced
by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward available to the person
for the municipal corporation.
(b)
Adjusted
federal
taxable
income,” for a person required to file
as a C corporation, or for a person
that has elected to be taxed as a C
corporation as described in division
(D)(5) of section 718.01 of the
Revised Code and Section 192.06 of
the Codified Ordinances, means a C
corporation’s federal taxable income
before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under
the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted
as follows:
(1) Deduct intangible income to
the extent included in federal taxable income. The deduction shall be
allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets
used in a trade or business or assets
held for the production of income.
(2) Add an amount equal to five
per
cent
of
intangible
income
deducted under division (b)(1) of
this section, but excluding that portion of intangible income directly
related to the sale, exchange, or
other
disposition
of
property
described in section 1221 of the
Internal Revenue Code.

6
(3) Add any losses allowed as a
deduction in the computation of federal taxable income if the losses
directly relate to the sale, exchange,
or other disposition of an asset
described in section 1221 or 1231 of
the Internal Revenue Code.
(4)
A. Except as provided in division
(b)(4)B. of this section, deduct
income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to
the sale, exchange, or other disposition of an asset described in section
1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue
Code.
B. Division (b)(4)A. of this section does not apply to the extent the
income or gain is income or gain
described in section 1245 or 1250 of
the Internal Revenue Code.
(5) Add taxes on or measured by
net income allowed as a deduction
in the computation of federal taxable income.
(6) In the case of a real estate
investment trust or regulated investment company, add all amounts
with respect to dividends to, distributions to, or amounts set aside for
or
credited
to
the
benefit
of
investors and allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal
taxable income.
(7) Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in computing federal taxable income, any
income derived from a transfer
agreement or from the enterprise
transferred under that agreement
under section 4313.02 of the Revised
Code.
(8) Deduct exempt income to the
extent not otherwise deducted or
excluded in computing adjusted federal taxable income.
(9) Deduct any net profit of a
pass-through entity owned directly
or indirectly by the taxpayer and
included in the taxpayer’s federal
taxable income unless an affiliated
group of corporations includes that
net profit in the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with division (e)(3)B. of Section 192.63 of the
Codified Ordinances.
(10) Add any loss incurred by a
pass-through entity owned directly
or indirectly by the taxpayer and
included in the taxpayer’s federal
taxable income unless an affiliated
group of corporations includes that
loss in the group’s federal taxable
income in accordance with division
(e)(3)B. of Section 192.63 of the Codified Ordinances.
If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity
that has made the election described
in division (uu)(2)A. of Section
192.06 of the Codified Ordinances,
and is not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election
described in division (w)(4)B. of
Section 192.06 of the Codified Ordinances, the taxpayer shall compute
adjusted federal taxable income
under this section as if the taxpayer were a C corporation, except
guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or accrued to a
partner, former partner, shareholder,
former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed as
a deductible expense unless such
payments are in consideration for
the use of capital and treated as
payment of interest under section
469 of the Internal Revenue Code or
United States treasury regulations.

The City Record
Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed retirement plan
with respect to a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member
of the taxpayer, amounts paid or
accrued to or for health insurance
for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member,
or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder,
former
shareholder,
member, or former member shall not
be allowed as a deduction.
Nothing in division (b) of this section shall be construed as allowing
the taxpayer to add or deduct any
amount more than once or shall be
construed as allowing any taxpayer
to deduct any amount paid to or
accrued for purposes of federal selfemployment tax.
(c) “Taxpayer” has the same
meaning as in division (uu) of Section 192.06 of the Codified Ordinances, except that “taxpayer” does
not include natural persons or entities subject to the tax imposed
under Chapter 5745 of the Revised
Code.
“Taxpayer”
may
include
receivers, assignees, or trustees in
bankruptcy when such persons are
required to assume the role of a taxpayer.
(d) “Tax return” or “return” means
the
notifications
and
reports
required to be filed pursuant to Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified
Ordinances for the purpose of reporting municipal income taxes, and
includes declarations of estimated
tax.
(e) “Taxable year” means the calendar year or the taxpayer’s fiscal
year ending during the calendar
year, or fractional part thereof, upon
which the calculation of the taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable
income is based pursuant to this
chapter. If a taxpayer’s taxable year
is changed for federal income tax
purposes, the taxable year for purposes of Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of
the Codified Ordinances is changed
accordingly but may consist of an
aggregation of more than one taxable year for federal income tax
purposes.
The
tax
commissioner
may prescribe by rule an appropriate period as the taxable year for a
taxpayer that has had a change of
its taxable year for federal income
tax purposes, for a taxpayer that
has two or more short taxable years
for federal income tax purposes as
the result of a change of ownership,
or for a new taxpayer that would
otherwise have no taxable year.
(f) “Assessment” means a notice
of underpayment or nonpayment of
a tax issued pursuant to Section
192.67 of the Codified Ordinances.
Section 192.59 Applicability; taxable situs; apportionment
This section applies to any taxpayer that is engaged in a business
or profession in the City and that
has made the election under Section
192.57 of the Codified Ordinances.
(a) Except as otherwise provided
in division (b) of this section, net
profit from a business or profession
conducted both within and without
the boundaries of the City shall be
considered as having a taxable situs
in the City for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same proportion as the average ratio of the
following:

106

January 31, 2018
(1) The average original cost of
the real property and tangible personal property owned or used by the
taxpayer in the business or profession in the City during the taxable
period to the average original cost
of all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the
taxpayer in the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real
property shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the
value of such property shall be
determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
(2) Wages, salaries, and other
compensation paid during the taxable period to individuals employed
in the business or profession for services performed in the City to
wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the same period
to individuals employed in the business or profession, wherever the
individual’s services are performed,
excluding compensation from which
taxes are not required to be withheld under Section 192.11 of the Codified Ordinances;
(3) Total gross receipts of the
business or profession from sales
and rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in
the City to total gross receipts of
the business or profession during
the same period from sales, rentals,
and services, wherever made or performed.
(b)
(1) If the apportionment factors
described in division (a) of this section do not fairly represent the
extent of a taxpayer’s business
activity in the City, the taxpayer
may request, or the tax commissioner may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment
method involving one or more of the
following:
A. Separate accounting;
B. The exclusion of one or more
of the factors;
C. The inclusion of one or more
additional factors that would provide for a more fair apportionment
of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation;
D. A modification of one or more
of the factors.
(2) A taxpayer request to use an
alternative apportionment method
shall be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed
appeal of an assessment, or timely
filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the requested alternative method unless the tax commissioner denies the request in an
assessment issued within the period
prescribed by division (a) of Section
192.67 of the Codified Ordinances.
(3) The tax commissioner may
require a taxpayer to use an alternative apportionment method as
described in division (b)(1) of this
section only by issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the
period prescribed by division (a) of
Section 192.67 of the Codified Ordinances.
(c) As used in division (a)(2) of
this section, “wages, salaries, and
other compensation” includes only
wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:

January 31, 2018
(1) A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the
following:
A. The employer;
B. A vendor, customer, client, or
patient of the employer, or a related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
C. A vendor, customer, client, or
patient of a person described in division (c)(1)B. of this section, or a
related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
(2) Any location at which a trial,
appeal,
hearing,
investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or
similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is
being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services
performed for, or on behalf of, the
employer or that the employee’s
presence at the location directly or
indirectly benefits the employer;
(3) Any other location, if the tax
commissioner determines that the
employer directed the employee to
perform the services at the other
location
in
lieu
of
a
location
described in division (c)(1) or (2)
of this section solely in order to
avoid or reduce the employer’s
municipal income tax liability. If
the tax commissioner makes such a
determination, the employer may
dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the tax commissioner’s determination was unreasonable.
(d) For the purposes of division
(a)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services
performed shall be sitused to the
City as follows:
(1) Gross receipts from the sale of
tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the City only if, regardless of where title passes, the property meets either of the following
criteria:
A. The property is shipped to or
delivered within the City from a
stock of goods located within the
City.
B. The property is delivered within the City from a location outside
the City, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the City and
the sales result from such solicitation or promotion.
(2) Gross receipts from the sale of
services shall be sitused to the City
to the extent that such services are
performed in the City.
(3) To the extent included in
income, gross receipts from the sale
of real property located in the City
shall be sitused to the City.
(4) To the extent included in
income, gross receipts from rents
and royalties from real property
located in the City shall be sitused
to the City.
(5) Gross receipts from rents and
royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the City
based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used
in the City.
(e) Commissions received by a
real estate agent or broker relating
to the sale, purchase, or lease of
real estate shall be sitused to the
City in which the real estate is
located. Net profit reported by the
real estate agent or broker shall be
allocated to the City based upon the

The City Record
ratio of the commissions the agent
or broker received from the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate
located in the City to the commissions received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the taxable year.
(f) If, in computing a taxpayer’s
adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with
respect to a stock option granted to
an employee, and if the employee is
not required to include in the
employee’s income any such amount
or a portion thereof because it is
exempted from taxation under the
Codified Ordinances by the City, the
taxpayer shall add the amount that
is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to the City. In no case shall
a taxpayer be required to add to its
net profit that was apportioned to
the City any amount other than the
amount upon which the employee
would be required to pay tax were
the amount related to the stock
option not exempted from taxation.
This division applies solely for
the purpose of making an adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer’s
net profit that was apportioned to
the City under this section.
(g) When calculating the ratios
described in division (a) of this section for the purposes of that division
or division (b) of this section, the
owner of a disregarded entity shall
include in the owner’s ratios the
property, payroll, and gross receipts
of such disregarded entity.
Section 192.60 Information Provided to Tax Administrators; Confidentiality
(a) Any information gained as a
result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required
or authorized by Sections 192.57 to
192.72 of the Codified Ordinances is
confidential, and no person shall disclose such information, except for
official purposes, in accordance with
a proper judicial order, or as provided in section 4123.271 or 5703.21
of the Revised Code. The tax commissioner may furnish the internal
revenue
service
with
copies
of
returns filed. This section does not
prohibit the publication of statistics
in a form which does not disclose
information with respect to particular taxpayers.
(b) In May and November of each
year, the tax commissioner shall
provide the City tax administrator
with the following information for
every
taxpayer
that
filed
tax
returns with the commissioner under
Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified
Ordinances
and
that
had
municipal taxable income apportionable to the City under this chapter
for any prior year:
(1) The taxpayer’s name, address,
and federal employer identification
number;
(2) The taxpayer’s apportionment
ratio for, and amount of municipal
taxable income apportionable to, the
City pursuant to Section 192.59 of
the Codified Ordinances;
(3) The amount of any pre-2017
net operating loss carryforward utilized by the taxpayer;
(4) Whether the taxpayer requested that any overpayment be carried
forward to a future taxable year;
(5) The amount of any credit
claimed under section 718.94 of the
Revised Code.

107

7
(c) Not later than thirty days
after each distribution made to
municipal corporations under section 718.83 of the Revised Code, the
tax commissioner shall provide to
the City a report stating the name
and federal identification number of
every taxpayer that made estimated
payments that are attributable to
the City and the amount of each
such taxpayer’s estimated payment.
(d) The information described
under divisions (b) and (c) of this
section shall be provided to the individual or individuals designated by
the City tax administrator under
section 718.84(D) of the Revised
Code.
(e)
(1) The City expects that the tax
commissioner will, pursuant to section 718.84(E) of the Revised Code,
provide tax returns and other information it receives in the performance of its administration of the
municipal net profits tax for taxpayers making the election provided in Section 192.57 of the Codified
Ordinances. The tax administrator
shall review these returns and information, as well as the information
received pursuant to divisions (b)
and (c) of this section, and has discretion to refer any taxpayer for
audit by the tax commissioner. Such
referral shall be made on a form
prescribed by the commissioner and
shall include any information that
forms the basis for the referral.
(2)
If
the
tax
commissioner
declines to audit a taxpayer referred
by the tax administrator under this
section, the City reserves its right
to pursue any and all remedies,
whether at law or in equity, to
ensure that the correct tax liability
has been calculated and paid by the
taxpayer.
Section 192.61 Filing of Annual
Return; Remittance; Disposition of
Funds
(a)
(1) For each taxable year, every
taxpayer shall file an annual return.
Such return, along with the amount
of tax shown to be due on the return
less the amount paid for the taxable
year under Section 192.65 of the Codified Ordinances, shall be submitted
to the tax commissioner, on a form
and in the manner prescribed by the
commissioner, on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end of the taxpayer’s
taxable year.
(2) If a taxpayer has multiple taxable years ending within one calendar year, the taxpayer shall aggregate the facts and figures necessary
to compute the tax due under this
chapter, in accordance with Sections
192.58, 192.59, and, if applicable,
192.63 of the Codified Ordinances
onto its annual return.
(3) The remittance shall be made
payable to the treasurer of state and
in the form prescribed by the tax
commissioner.
If
the
amount
payable with the tax return is ten
dollars or less, no remittance is
required.
(b) The tax commissioner shall
immediately forward to the treasurer of state all amounts the commissioner received pursuant to sections
718.80 to 718.95 of the Revised Code.
The treasurer shall credit ninetynine and one-half per cent of such
amounts to the municipal income
tax fund and the remainder to the

8
municipal income tax administrative
fund
established
under
section
5745.03 of the Revised Code.
(c)
(1) Each return required to be
filed under this section shall contain
the signature of the taxpayer or the
taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the
return for the taxpayer, and shall
include the taxpayer’s identification
number. Each return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty
of perjury.
(2)
A. The tax commissioner may
require a taxpayer to include, with
each annual tax return, amended
return, or request for refund filed
with the commissioner under Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified
Ordinances, copies of any relevant
documents or other information.
B. A taxpayer that files an annual tax return electronically through
the Ohio business gateway or in
another manner as prescribed by the
tax commissioner shall either submit the documents required under
this division electronically as prescribed at the time of filing or, if
electronic submission is not available, mail the documents to the tax
commissioner. The department of
taxation shall publish a method of
electronically submitting the documents required under this division
on or before January 1, 2019.
(3) After a taxpayer files a tax
return, the tax commissioner may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required to determine
and verify the taxpayer’s municipal
income tax.
(d)
(1)
A. Any taxpayer that has duly
requested an automatic extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal
income tax return shall automatically receive an extension for the
filing of a tax return with the commissioner under this section. The
extended due date of the return
shall be the fifteenth day of the
tenth month after the last day of the
taxable year to which the return
relates.
B.
A
taxpayer
that
has
not
requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s
federal income tax return may
request that the commissioner grant
the taxpayer a six-month extension
of the date for filing the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax return. If the
commissioner receives the request
on or before the date the municipal
income tax return is due, the commissioner shall grant the taxpayer’s
extension request.
C. An extension of time to file
under division (d)(1) of this section
is not an extension of the time to
pay any tax due unless the tax commissioner grants an extension of
that date.
(2) If the commissioner considers
it necessary in order to ensure payment of a tax imposed in accordance
with Section 192.03 of the Codified
Ordinances, the commissioner may
require taxpayers to file returns and
make payments otherwise than as
provided in this section, including
taxpayers not otherwise required to
file annual returns.
(e) Each return required to be
filed in accordance with this section

The City Record
shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize another person, including a tax return
preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the tax commissioner about matters pertaining to
the return. The return or instructions accompanying the return shall
indicate that by checking the box
the taxpayer authorizes the commissioner to contact the preparer or
other person concerning questions
that arise during the examination or
other review of the return and
authorizes the preparer or other person only to provide the commissioner with information that is missing
from the return, to contact the commissioner for information about the
examination or other review of the
return or the status of the taxpayer’s refund or payments, and to
respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or return preparation
that
the
taxpayer
has
received from the commissioner and
has shown to the preparer or other
person.
(f) When income tax returns or
other documents require the signature of a tax return preparer, the
tax commissioner shall accept a facsimile or electronic version of such
a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
Section 192.62 Electronic Filing
(a) All taxpayers that have made
the election allowed under Section
192.57 of the Codified Ordinances
shall file any tax return or extension for filing a tax return, and
shall make payment of amounts
shown to be due on such returns,
electronically, either through the
Ohio business gateway or in another manner as prescribed by the tax
commissioner.
(b) A taxpayer may apply to the
commissioner, on a form prescribed
by the commissioner, to be excused
from the requirement to file returns
and make payments electronically.
For good cause shown, the commissioner may excuse the applicant
from the requirement and permit the
applicant to file the returns or make
the
payments
by
nonelectronic
means.
(c) The tax commissioner may
adopt rules establishing the following:
(1) The format of documents to be
used by taxpayers to file returns
and make payments by electronic
means;
(2) The information taxpayers
must submit when filing tax returns
by electronic means.
Section
192.63
Consolidated
Returns
(a) As used in this section:
(1) “Affiliated group of corporations” means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if
such a group includes at least one
incumbent local exchange carrier
that is primarily engaged in the
business
of
providing
local
exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not
include
any
incumbent
local
exchange carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
(2) “Consolidated federal income
tax return” means a consolidated
return filed for federal income tax
purposes pursuant to section 1501 of
the Internal Revenue Code.

108

January 31, 2018
(3) “Consolidated federal taxable
income” means the consolidated taxable income of an affiliated group
of corporations, as computed for the
purposes of filing a consolidated
federal income tax return, before
consideration of net operating losses or special deductions. “Consolidated federal taxable income” does
not include income or loss of an
incumbent local exchange carrier
that is excluded from the affiliated
group under division (a)(1) of this
section.
(4) “Incumbent local exchange
carrier” has the same meaning as in
section 4927.01 of the Revised Code.
(5) “Local exchange telephone service” has the same meaning as in
section 5727.01 of the Revised Code.
(b)
(1) A taxpayer that is a member
of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to file a consolidated tax return for a taxable year if
at least one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject
to municipal income tax levied pursuant to this Chapter in that taxable
year and if the affiliated group of
corporations filed a consolidated
federal income tax return with
respect to that taxable year. The
election is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the initial election
unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal
law. The election continues to be
binding for each subsequent fiveyear period unless the taxpayer
elects to discontinue filing consolidated tax returns under division
(b)(2) of this section or a taxpayer
receives permission from the tax
commissioner. The tax commissioner shall approve such a request for
good cause shown.
(2) An election to discontinue filing consolidated tax returns under
this section must be made on or
before the fifteenth day of the
fourth month of the year following
the last year of a five-year consolidated tax return election period in
effect under division (b)(1) of this
section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated tax return is
binding for a five-year period beginning with the first taxable year of
the election.
(3) An election made under division (b)(1) or (2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject
to a municipal income tax.
(4) When a taxpayer makes the
election allowed under Section 192.57
of the Codified Ordinances, a valid
election made by the taxpayer under
division (b)(1) or (2) of Section
192.15 of the Codified Ordinances is
binding upon the tax commissioner
for the remainder of the five-year
period.
(5) When an election made under
Section 192.57 of the Codified Ordinances is terminated, a valid election made under this section is binding upon the tax administrator for
the remainder of the five-year period.
(c) A taxpayer that is a member
of an affiliated group of corporations that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable
year shall file a consolidated tax
return for that taxable year if the
tax commissioner determines, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that

January 31, 2018
intercompany transactions have not
been conducted at arm’s length and
that there has been a distortive
shifting of income or expenses with
regard to allocation of net profits to
a municipal corporation. A taxpayer
that is required to file a consolidated tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated tax return
for all subsequent taxable years
unless the taxpayer requests and
receives written permission from the
commissioner to file a separate
return or a taxpayer has experienced a change in circumstances.
(d) A taxpayer shall prepare a
consolidated tax return in the same
manner as is required under the
United States department of treasury regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the
consolidated
federal
income
tax
return required to be filed by the
common parent of the affiliated
group of which the taxpayer is a
member.
(e)
(1) Except as otherwise provided
in divisions (e)(2), (3), and (4) of
this section, corporations that file a
consolidated tax return shall compute
adjusted
federal
taxable
income, as defined in Section 192.58
of the Codified Ordinances, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income” for “federal taxable
income” wherever “federal taxable
income” appears in that division and
by substituting “an affiliated group
of corporation’s” for “a C corporation’s” wherever “a C corporation’s”
appears in that division.
(2) No corporation filing a consolidated tax return shall make any
adjustment
otherwise
required
under division (b) of Section 192.58
of the Codified Ordinances to the
extent that the item of income or
deduction otherwise subject to the
adjustment has been eliminated or
consolidated in the computation of
consolidated federal taxable income.
(3) If the net profit or loss of a
pass-through entity having at least
eighty per cent of the value of its
ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by an
affiliated group of corporations is
included in that affiliated group’s
consolidated federal taxable income
for a taxable year, the corporation
filing a consolidated tax return
shall do one of the following with
respect to that pass-through entity’s
net profit or loss for that taxable
year:
A. Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the consolidated federal taxable income of
the affiliated group and, for the purpose of making the computations
required in Section 192.59 of the Codified Ordinances, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of
the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net
profit sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or
loss is so excluded, the entity shall
be subject to taxation as a separate
taxpayer on the basis of the entity’s
net profits that would otherwise be
included in the consolidated federal
taxable income of the affiliated
group.
B. Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the consolidated federal taxable income of the
affiliated group and, for the purpose
of
making
the
computations

The City Record
required in Section 192.59 of the Codified Ordinances, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of
the pass-through entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net
profit sitused to a municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or
loss is so included, the entity shall
not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
(4) If the net profit or loss of a
pass-through entity having less than
eighty per cent of the value of its
ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by an
affiliated group of corporations is
included in that affiliated group’s
consolidated federal taxable income
for a taxable year, all of the following shall apply:
A. The corporation filing the consolidated tax return shall exclude
the pass-through entity’s net profit
or loss from the consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated
group and, for the purposes of making the computations required in
Section 192.59 of the Codified Ordinances, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the passthrough entity in the computation of
the affiliated group’s net profit
sitused to a municipal corporation;
B. The pass-through entity shall
be subject to municipal income taxation as a separate taxpayer in
accordance with Sections 192.57 to
192.72 of the Codified Ordinances on
the basis of the entity’s net profits
that would otherwise be included in
the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
(f) Corporations filing a consolidated tax return shall make the
computations required under Section
192.59 of the Codified Ordinances by
substituting “consolidated federal
taxable income attributable to” for
“net profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and
by substituting “affiliated group of
corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever “taxpayer” appears in that section.
(g) Each corporation filing a consolidated tax return is jointly and
severally liable for any tax, interest,
penalties, fines, charges, or other
amounts applicable under Section
192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances or Chapter 5703. of the
Revised Code to the corporation, an
affiliated group of which the corporation is a member for any portion
of the taxable year, or any one or
more members of such an affiliated
group.
Section 192.64 Failure to Pay Tax
If a taxpayer that has made the
election allowed under Section 192.57
of the Codified Ordinances fails to
pay any tax as required under Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified
Ordinances, or any portion of that
tax, on or before the date prescribed
for its payment, interest shall be
assessed, collected, and paid, in the
same manner as the tax, upon such
unpaid amount at the rate per
annum prescribed by section 5703.47
of the Revised Code from the date
prescribed for its payment until it is
paid or until the date an assessment
is issued under Section 192.67 of the
Codified
Ordinances,
whichever
occurs first.

109

9
Section 192.65 Declaration of Estimated Taxes
(a) As used in this section:
(1)
“Combined
tax
liability”
means the total amount of a taxpayer’s income tax liabilities to all
municipal corporations in this state
for a taxable year.
(2) “Estimated taxes” means the
amount that the taxpayer reasonably estimates to be the taxpayer’s
combined tax liability for the current taxable year.
(b)
(1) Except as provided in division
(b)(4) of this section, every taxpayer shall make a declaration of
estimated taxes for the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by
the tax commissioner, if the amount
payable as estimated taxes is at
least two hundred dollars.
(2) Except as provided in division
(b)(4) of this section, a taxpayer
having a taxable year of less than
twelve months shall make a declaration under rules prescribed by the
commissioner.
(3) The declaration of estimated
taxes shall be filed on or before the
fifteenth day of the fourth month
after the beginning of the taxable
year or on or before the fifteenth
day of the fourth month after the
taxpayer becomes subject to tax for
the first time.
(4) The tax commissioner may
waive the requirement for filing a
declaration of estimated taxes for
any class of taxpayers after finding
that the waiver is reasonable and
proper in view of administrative
costs and other factors.
(c) Each taxpayer shall file the
declaration of estimated taxes with,
and remit estimated taxes to, the
tax commissioner at the times and
in the amounts prescribed in division (c)(1) of this section. Remitted
taxes shall be made payable to the
treasurer of state.
(1) The required portion of the
combined tax liability for the taxable year that shall be paid through
estimated taxes shall be as follows:
A. On or before the fifteenth day
of the fourth month after the beginning of the taxable year, twenty-two
and one-half per cent of the combined tax liability for the taxable
year;
B. On or before the fifteenth day
of the sixth month after the beginning of the taxable year, forty-five
per cent of the combined tax liability for the taxable year;
C. On or before the fifteenth day
of the ninth month after the beginning of the taxable year, sixty-seven
and one-half per cent of the combined tax liability for the taxable
year;
D. On or before the fifteenth day
of the twelfth month of the taxable
year, ninety per cent of the combined tax liability for the taxable
year.
(2) If the taxpayer determines
that its declaration of estimated
taxes will not accurately reflect the
taxpayer’s tax liability for the taxable
year,
the
taxpayer
shall
increase or decrease, as appropriate,
its subsequent payments in equal
installments to result in a more
accurate
payment
of
estimated
taxes.
(3)
A. Each taxpayer shall report on
the declaration of estimated taxes
the portion of the remittance that

10
the taxpayer estimates that it owes
to each municipal corporation for
the taxable year.
B. Upon receiving a payment of
estimated taxes under this section,
the commissioner shall immediately
forward the payment to the treasurer of state. The treasurer shall credit the payment in the same manner
as in division (B) of section 718.85
of the Revised Code.
(d)
(1) In the case of any underpayment of estimated taxes, there shall
be added to the taxes an amount
determined at the rate per annum
prescribed by section 5703.47 of the
Revised Code upon the amount of
underpayment for the period of
underpayment, unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as
described in division (e) of this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
A. For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, twenty-two
and one-half per cent of the combined tax liability, less the amount
of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment;
B. For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, forty-five
per cent of the combined tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid
by the date prescribed for that payment;
C. For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, sixty-seven
and one-half per cent of the combined tax liability, less the amount
of taxes paid by the date prescribed
for that payment;
D. For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, ninety per
cent of the combined tax liability,
less the amount of taxes paid by the
date prescribed for that payment.
(2) The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated payment was required to be
made to the date on which the payment is made. For purposes of this
section, a payment of estimated
taxes on or before any payment date
shall be considered a payment of
any previous underpayment only to
the extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the
payment presently due.
(3) All amounts collected under
this section shall be considered as
taxes collected under Sections 192.57
to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances
and shall be credited and distributed
to municipal corporations in accordance with section 718.83 of the
Revised Code.
(e) An underpayment of any portion of a combined tax liability shall
be due to reasonable cause and the
penalty imposed by this section
shall not be added to the taxes for
the taxable year if any of the following apply:
(1) The amount of estimated
taxes that were paid equals at least
ninety per cent of the combined tax
liability for the current taxable
year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up
to the end of the month immediately preceding the month in which the
payment is due.
(2) The amount of estimated
taxes that were paid equals at least
one hundred per cent of the tax liability shown on the return of the
taxpayer for the preceding taxable
year, provided that the immediately
preceding taxable year reflected a

The City Record
period of twelve months and the taxpayer filed a municipal income tax
return for that year.
Section 192.66 Additional Penalties
(a) In addition to any other penalty imposed by Sections 192.57 to
192.72 of the Codified Ordinances or
Chapter 5703. of the Revised Code,
the following penalties shall apply:
(1) If a taxpayer required to file
a tax return under Sections 192.57 to
192.72 of the Codified Ordinances
fails to make and file the return
within the time prescribed, including any extensions of time granted
by the tax commissioner, the commissioner may impose a penalty not
exceeding twenty-five dollars per
month or fraction of a month, for
each month or fraction of a month
elapsing between the due date,
including extensions of the due
date, and the date on which the
return is filed. The aggregate penalty, per instance, under this division
shall not exceed one hundred fifty
dollars.
(2) If a person required to file a
tax return electronically under Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified
Ordinances fails to do so, the commissioner may impose a penalty not
to exceed the following:
A. For each of the first two failures, five per cent of the amount
required to be reported on the
return;
B. For the third and any subsequent failure, ten per cent of the
amount required to be reported on
the return.
(3) If a taxpayer that has made
the election allowed under Section
192.57 of the Codified Ordinances
fails to timely pay an amount of tax
required to be paid under this chapter, the commissioner may impose a
penalty equal to fifteen per cent of
the amount not timely paid.
(4) If a taxpayer files what purports to be a tax return required by
Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances that does not contain information upon which the
substantial correctness of the return
may be judged or contains information that on its face indicates that
the return is substantially incorrect,
and the filing of the return in that
manner is due to a position that is
frivolous or a desire that is apparent from the return to delay or
impede the administration of Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified
Ordinances, a penalty of up to five
hundred dollars may be imposed.
(5) If a taxpayer makes a fraudulent attempt to evade the reporting
or payment of the tax required to be
shown on any return required under
Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances, a penalty may be
imposed not exceeding the greater
of one thousand dollars or one hundred per cent of the tax required to
be shown on the return.
(6) If any person makes a false
or fraudulent claim for a refund
under Section 192.68 of the Codified
Ordinances,
a
penalty
may
be
imposed not exceeding the greater
of one thousand dollars or one hundred per cent of the claim. Any
penalty imposed under this division,
any refund issued on the claim, and
interest on any refund from the date
of the refund, may be assessed
under Section 192.67 of the Codified
Ordinances without regard to any
time limitation for the assessment

110

January 31, 2018
imposed by division (a) of that section.
(b) For purposes of this section,
the tax required to be shown on a
tax return shall be reduced by the
amount of any part of the tax paid
on or before the date, including any
extensions of the date, prescribed
for filing the return.
(c) Each penalty imposed under
this section shall be in addition to
any other penalty imposed under
this section. All or part of any
penalty imposed under this section
may be abated by the tax commissioner. The commissioner may adopt
rules governing the imposition and
abatement of such penalties.
(d) All amounts collected under
this section shall be considered as
taxes collected under Sections 192.57
to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances
and shall be credited and distributed
to municipal corporations in the
same proportion as the underlying
tax liability is required to be distributed to such municipal corporations under section 718.83 of the
Revised Code.
Section
192.67
Assessments
Against Taxpayer
(a) If any taxpayer required to
file a return under Sections 192.57 to
192.72 of the Codified Ordinances
fails to file the return within the
time prescribed, files an incorrect
return, or fails to remit the full
amount of the tax due for the period covered by the return, the tax
commissioner may make an assessment against the taxpayer for any
deficiency for the period for which
the return or tax is due, based upon
any information in the commissioner’s possession.
The tax commissioner shall not
make
or
issue
an
assessment
against a taxpayer more than three
years after the later of the date the
return subject to assessment was
required to be filed or the date the
return was filed. Such time limit
may be extended if both the taxpayer and the commissioner consent
in writing to the extension. Any
such extension shall extend the
three-year time limit in Section
192.68 of the Codified Ordinances for
the same period of time. There shall
be no bar or limit to an assessment
against a taxpayer that fails to file
a return subject to assessment as
required by Sections 192.57 to 192.72
of the Codified Ordinances, or that
files a fraudulent return. The commissioner shall give the taxpayer
assessed
written
notice
of
the
assessment as provided in section
5703.37 of the Revised Code. With
the notice, the commissioner shall
provide instructions on how to petition for reassessment and request a
hearing on the petition.
(b) Unless the taxpayer assessed
files with the tax commissioner
within sixty days after service of
the notice of assessment, either personally or by certified mail, a written petition for reassessment signed
by the authorized agent of the taxpayer assessed having knowledge of
the facts, the assessment becomes
final, and the amount of the assessment is due and payable from the
taxpayer to the treasurer of state.
The petition shall indicate the taxpayer’s objections, but additional
objections may be raised in writing
if received by the commissioner
prior to the date shown on the final
determination. If the petition has

January 31, 2018
been properly filed, the commissioner
shall
proceed
under
section
5703.60 of the Revised Code.
(c) After an assessment becomes
final, if any portion of the assessment
remains
unpaid,
including
accrued interest, a certified copy of
the tax commissioner’s entry making the assessment final may be
filed in the office of the clerk of the
court of common pleas in the county in which the taxpayer has an
office or place of business in this
state, the county in which the taxpayer’s statutory agent is located, or
Franklin county.
Immediately upon the filing of the
entry, the clerk shall enter a judgment against the taxpayer assessed
in the amount shown on the entry.
The judgment may be filed by the
clerk in a loose-leaf book entitled
“special judgments for municipal
income taxes,” and shall have the
same effect as other judgments.
Execution shall issue upon the judgment upon the request of the tax
commissioner, and all laws applicable to sales on execution shall apply
to sales made under the judgment.
If the assessment is not paid in
its entirety within sixty days after
the day the assessment was issued,
the portion of the assessment consisting of tax due shall bear interest at the rate per annum prescribed
by section 5703.47 of the Revised
Code from the day the commissioner issues the assessment until the
assessment is paid or until it is certified to the attorney general for collection under section 131.02 of the
Revised
Code,
whichever
comes
first. If the unpaid portion of the
assessment is certified to the attorney general for collection, the entire
unpaid portion of the assessment
shall bear interest at the rate per
annum prescribed by section 5703.47
of the Revised Code from the date
of certification until the date it is
paid in its entirety. Interest shall be
paid in the same manner as the tax
and may be collected by issuing an
assessment under this section.
(d) All money collected under this
section shall be credited to the
municipal income tax fund and distributed to the municipal corporation to which the money is owed
based on the assessment issued
under this section.
(e)
If
the
tax
commissioner
believes that collection of the tax
will be jeopardized unless proceedings to collect or secure collection
of the tax are instituted without
delay, the commissioner may issue a
jeopardy assessment against the
taxpayer liable for the tax. Immediately upon the issuance of the jeopardy assessment, the commissioner
shall file an entry with the clerk of
the court of common pleas in the
manner prescribed by division (c) of
this section. Notice of the jeopardy
assessment shall be served on the
taxpayer assessed or the taxpayer’s
legal representative in the manner
provided in section 5703.37 of the
Revised Code within five days of
the filing of the entry with the
clerk. The total amount assessed is
immediately
due
and
payable,
unless the taxpayer assessed files a
petition for reassessment in accordance with division (b) of this section and provides security in a form
satisfactory to the commissioner and
in an amount sufficient to satisfy
the unpaid balance of the assessment. Full or partial payment of the

The City Record
assessment does not prejudice the
commissioner’s consideration of the
petition for reassessment.
(f) Notwithstanding the fact that
a petition for reassessment is pending, the taxpayer may pay all or a
portion of the assessment that is the
subject of the petition. The acceptance of a payment by the treasurer of state does not prejudice any
claim for refund upon final determination of the petition.
If upon final determination of the
petition an error in the assessment
is corrected by the tax commissioner, upon petition so filed or pursuant
to a decision of the board of tax
appeals or any court to which the
determination or decision has been
appealed, so that the amount due
from the taxpayer under the corrected assessment is less than the
portion paid, there shall be issued to
the taxpayer, its assigns, or legal
representative
a
refund
in
the
amount of the overpayment as provided by Section 192.68 of the Codified Ordinances, with interest on
that amount as provided by that section.
Section 192.68 Refund Applications
(a) An application to refund to a
taxpayer the amount of taxes paid
on any illegal, erroneous, or excessive payment of tax under Sections
192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances, including assessments, shall
be filed with the tax commissioner
within three years after the date of
the illegal, erroneous, or excessive
payment of the tax, or within any
additional period allowed by division (a) of Section 192.67 of the Codified Ordinances. The application
shall be filed in the form prescribed
by the tax commissioner.
(b)
(1) On the filing of a refund application, the tax commissioner shall
determine the amount of refund to
which the applicant is entitled. The
amount determined shall be based
on the amount overpaid per return
or assessment. If the amount is
greater than ten dollars and not less
than that claimed, the commissioner
shall certify that amount to the
director of budget and management
and the treasurer of state for payment from the tax refund fund created in section 5703.052 of the
Revised Code. If the amount is
greater than ten dollars but less
than that claimed, the commissioner
shall proceed in accordance with
section 5703.70 of the Revised Code.
(2) Upon issuance of a refund
under this section, the commissioner shall notify each municipal corporation of the amount refunded to
the taxpayer attributable to that
municipal corporation, which shall
be deducted from the municipal corporation’s next distribution under
section 718.83 of the Revised Code.
(c) Any portion of a refund determined under division (B) of this section that is not issued within ninety days after such determination
shall bear interest at the rate per
annum prescribed by section 5703.47
of the Revised Code from the ninety-first day after such determination
until the day the refund is paid or
credited. On an illegal or erroneous
assessment, interest shall be paid at
that rate from the date of payment
on the illegal or erroneous assessment until the day the refund is
paid or credited.

111

11
Section 192.69 Amended Returns
(a) If any of the facts, figures,
computations,
or
attachments
required in an annual return filed
by a taxpayer that has made the
election allowed under Section 192.57
of the Codified Ordinances and used
to determine the tax due under Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified
Ordinances must be altered as the
result of an adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal income tax return,
whether initiated by the taxpayer or
the internal revenue service, and
such alteration affects the taxpayer’s tax liability under those sections, the taxpayer shall file an
amended return with the tax commissioner in such form as the commissioner requires. The amended
return shall be filed not later than
sixty days after the adjustment is
agreed upon or finally determined
for federal income tax purposes or
after any federal income tax deficiency or refund, or the abatement
or credit resulting therefrom, has
been assessed or paid, whichever
occurs first. If a taxpayer intends to
file an amended consolidated municipal income tax return, or to amend
its type of return from a separate
return to a consolidated return,
based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax return, the
taxpayer shall notify the commissioner before filing the amended
return.
(b) In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any
combined additional tax due together with any penalty and interest
thereon.
An
amended
return
required by this section is a return
subject to assessment under Section
192.67 of the Codified Ordinances for
the purpose of assessing any additional tax due under this section,
together with any applicable penalty and interest. The amended return
shall not reopen those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments from a
previously filed return no longer
subject to assessment that are not
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal tax return.
(c) In the case of an overpayment,
an application for refund may be
filed under this division within the
sixty-day period prescribed for filing the amended return, even if that
period extends beyond the period
prescribed in Section 192.68 of the
Codified Ordinances, if the application
otherwise
conforms
to
the
requirements of that section. An
application filed under this division
shall claim refund of overpayments
resulting from alterations to only
those facts, figures, computations, or
attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are affected,
either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal income tax return unless it is
also filed within the time prescribed
in Section 192.68 of the Codified
Ordinances. The application shall
not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or attachments that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal income tax return.
Section
192.70
Examination
of
Records and Other Documents and
Persons
(a) The tax commissioner, or any
authorized agent or employee thereof, may examine the books, papers,

12

The City Record
(2) A copy of the ordinance or resolution authorizing the agreement
entered into between the City and
the taxpayer.
(b)
(1) Each taxpayer that claims a
credit shall submit, with the taxpayer’s tax return, documentation
issued by the City granting the credit that confirms the eligibility of the
taxpayer for the credit, the amount
of the credit for which the taxpayer is eligible, and the tax year to
which the credit is to be applied.
(2) Such documentation shall be
provided in the form prescribed by
the tax commissioner.
(3) Nothing in this section shall
be construed to authorize the tax
commissioner to enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to grant a
credit, to determine if a taxpayer
meets the conditions of a tax credit
agreement entered into by the City
and taxpayer under Section 192.16 or
192.17 of the Codified Ordinances,, or
to modify the terms or conditions of
any such existing agreement.

records,
and
federal
and
state
income tax returns of any taxpayer
or other person that is subject to
Sections 192.57 to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances for the purpose of
verifying the accuracy of any return
made or, if no return was filed, to
ascertain the tax due as required
under those sections. Upon written
request by the commissioner or a
duly authorized agent or employee
thereof, every taxpayer or other person
subject
to
this
section
is
required to furnish the opportunity
for the commissioner, authorized
agent, or employee to investigate
and examine such books, papers,
records,
and
federal
and
state
income tax returns at a reasonable
time and place designated in the
request.
(b) The records and other documents of any taxpayer or other person that is subject to Sections 192.57
to 192.72 of the Codified Ordinances
shall be open to the tax commissioner’s inspection during business
hours and shall be preserved for a
period of six years following the
end of the taxable year to which the
records or documents relate, unless
the commissioner, in writing, consents to their destruction within
that period, or by order requires
that they be kept longer. The commissioner may require any person,
by notice served on that person, to
keep such records as the commissioner determines necessary to show
whether or not that person is liable,
and the extent of such liability, for
the income tax levied by a municipal corporation.
(c) The tax commissioner may
examine under oath any person that
the
commissioner
reasonably
believes has knowledge concerning
any income that was or would have
been returned for taxation or any
transaction tending to affect such
income. The commissioner may, for
this purpose, compel any such person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books,
papers, records, and federal income
tax returns in such person’s possession or control. The person may be
assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant,
bookkeeper,
or
other tax practitioner at any such
hearing or examination. This division does not authorize the practice
of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
(d) No person issued written
notice by the tax commissioner compelling attendance at a hearing or
examination or the production of
books, papers, records, or federal
income tax returns under this section shall fail to comply.

Section 192.72 Reckless Violations;
Penalties
(a) Whoever recklessly violates
division (a) of Section 192.60 of the
Codified Ordinances shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and shall be subject to a fine of not
more than one thousand dollars or
imprisonment for a term of up to six
months, or both.
(b) Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of division (a)
of Section 192.60 of the Codified
Ordinances constitutes a separate
offense.
(c) These specific penalties shall
not be construed to prevent the City
from prosecuting any and all other
offenses that may apply.
Section 3. That if any provision of
the H.B. 49 municipal income tax
provisions is found unconstitutional,
or the effectiveness of any provision
of HB 49 is stayed or enjoined, that
the provisions adopted in Section 2
of this ordinance shall likewise be
stayed or ineffective.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

Section 192.71 Credits
(a) A credit, granted by resolution
or ordinance of the City pursuant to
Section 192.16 or 192.17 of the Codified Ordinances, shall be available
to a taxpayer that has made the
election allowed under Section 192.57
of the Codified Ordinances, against
the municipal corporation’s tax on
income. A municipal corporation
shall submit the following information to the tax commissioner on or
before the later of January 31, 2018,
or the thirty-first day of January of
the first year in which the taxpayer is eligible to receive the credit:
(1) A copy of the agreement
entered into by the City and taxpayer under Section 192.16 or 192.17
of the Codified Ordinances;

Ord. No. 121-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into one or more contracts with Court Community Service to arrangement placement and
supervision of persons to community service assignments and to the
Cleveland work Crew Program, both
as referred by the Court, for the
Cleveland Municipal Court, each for
a period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

112

January 31, 2018
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Court Community Service to
arrange placement and supervision
of persons referred by the Court to
community service assignments for
a period of one year, commencing
January 1, 2018. The cost of the contract shall not exceed $270,000.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Court Community Service to
arrange community service for persons the Court refers to the Cleveland Work Crew Program for a period of one year, commencing January 1, 2018. The cost of the contract
shall not exceed $99,600.
Section 3. The cost of the contracts shall be paid from Fund No.
01-0115-6320, RQS 0115, RL 2018-12.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 122-18.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 135.52 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1649-92,
passed October 5, 1992, relating to
the rental of site and purchase of
refreshments
and
mementos
for
Safety Programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 135.52 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1649-92, passed October 5, 1992, is amended to read as
follows:
Section 135.52 Rental of Site and
Purchase
of
Refreshments
and
Mementos for Safety Programs and
Events
(a) The Director of Public Safety
shall have the authority to expend
funds in order to provide refreshments, mementos and, if necessary,
to rent a site for the following:
(1) Training evaluation meetings
held by members of the Department
of Public Safety to review Safety
programs in progress and discuss
new programs;
(2) Events honoring employees
for
volunteer
and
work-related
achievements, including but not limited to, an annual employees’ service
award program; and
(3) Events honoring citizens for
volunteer and community service
achievements.;
(4) Emergency operations for civil
disturbance or special events requiring Division wide call-up; and

January 31, 2018
(5) Community outreach events
and education programs sponsored
by the Department of Public Safety.
(b) The total amount of funds
expended for all of the above programs shall not exceed three fifty
thousand
dollars
($3,000.00)
($50,000) per year.
Section 2. That existing Section
135.52 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1649-92, passed
October 5, 1992, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 123-18.
By Council Members Griffin and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 6 of Ordinance
No. 543-16, passed June 6, 2016, relating to applying for and accepting a
grant from Substance Abuse and
Mental Health Services Administration, Center for Mental Health Services and Center for Substance
Abuse Treatment for the Cooperative Agreements to Benefit Homeless Individuals Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 6 of Ordinance No. 543-16,
passed June 6, 2016, are amended to
read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration, Center for
Substance Abuse Treatment for the
Cooperative Agreements to Benefit
Homeless Individuals Program; and
authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more contracts with
FrontLine
Service,
Front
Steps
Housing & Services, Inc. for a term
commencing January 1, 2018, and
other entities, to implement the
grant.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with or
make payments to FrontLine Service, a contract with Front Steps
Housing & Services, Inc. for a term
commencing January 1, 2018, and
one or more additional contracts
with either of them or with other
entities, to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 6 of Ordinance No. 54316, passed June 6, 2016, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 124-18.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Building and
Housing to apply for and accept a
grant from Environmental Health
Watch for the Build Health Challenge 2.0 Program; and authorizing
the Director of Building and Housing and/or Public Health to enter
into one or more contracts and memoranda of understanding needed to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the approximate amount of $20,000,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from Environmental Health
Watch to conduct the Build Health
Challenge 2.0 Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 124-18-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to employ by contract or contracts
one or more consultants or one or
more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
grant as described in the file,
including providing Accela database
configuration support and expansion
of data sharing capacity.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Building
and Housing from a list of qualified
consultants available for employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Building and Housing
for the purpose of compiling a list.
The compensation to be paid for the
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Building and Housing,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 4. That under Section
108(B) of the Charter, purchases
made under the grant agreement
may be made through cooperative
arrangements with other governmental agencies. The Director of
Building and Housing may sign all

113

13
documents and do all things that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 5. That the Director of
Building and Housing and/or the
Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Case Poverty Center and
other entities needed to implement
the grant as described in the file,
including but not limited to, a memorandum
of
understanding
with
Environmental Health Watch.
Section 6. That the cost of the contracts authorized in this ordinance
shall be paid from the fund or funds
to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 117-18.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with Burten, Bell,
Carr Development Inc. for the Holiday
Food
Gift
Card
Program
through the use of Ward 5 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into an agreement effective November 1, 2017 with Burten, Bell, Carr
Development Inc., for the Holiday
Food Gift Card Program for the public purpose of providing food gift
cards to low/moderate income residents residing in the city of Cleveland through the use of Ward 5
Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $7,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record

14
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 125-18.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of stock of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 14222 Lorain Avenue, 1st floor
and basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a transfer
of stock of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit at Dailey’s Inc.,
14222 Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
Permanent Number 1897646; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of stock of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit at Dailey’s Inc.,
14222 Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
Permanent
Number
1897646,
and
requests
the
Superintendent
of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two

copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 126-18.
By Council Member Santana.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 2704 Clark Avenue
and repealing Resolution No. 978-17,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar, #1781, 2704 Clark
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 26312750200 by Resolution No. 978-17 adopted by the
Council on August 16, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #1781, 2704 Clark Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 26312750200, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 978-17, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 127-18.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 4576 West 130th
Street and repealing Resolution No.
1062-17, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar, #10245, 4576 West
130th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44135,

114

January 31, 2018
Permanent Number 26312750350 by
Resolution No. 1072-17 adopted by
the Council on September 18, 2017;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #10245, 4576 West 130th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent Number 26312750350, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1062-17, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 128-18.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 6513 Clark Avenue
and repealing Resolution No. 1387-17,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar, #11537, 6513 Clark
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 26312750770 by Resolution No. 1387-17 adopted by the
Council on November 13, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #11537, 6513 Clark Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 26312750770, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1387-17, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

January 31, 2018
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 129-18.
By Council Member Hairston.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 7300 St. Clair
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 1285-17, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar, #7166, 7300 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 26312750505 by Resolution No. 1285-17 adopted by the
Council on October 23, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #7166, 7300 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 26312750505, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1285-17, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 130-18.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor
Permit
at
7301
Detroit
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 1061-17, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar, #5559, 7301 Detroit
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 26312750330 by Resolution No. 1061-17 adopted by the
Council on September 18, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #5559, 7301 Detroit Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 26312750330, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1061-17, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 131-18.
By Council Member Griffin.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor
Permit
at
7965
Euclid
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 13-18, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar, #8465, 7965 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 26312750800 by Resolution No. 13-18 adopted by the
Council on January 8, 2018; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #8465, 7965 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 26312750800, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 13-18, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.

115

15
Res. No. 132-18.
By Council Member Bishop.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 9302 Miles Avenue
and repealing Resolution No. 972-17,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar, #5778, 9302 Miles
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 26312750205 by Resolution No. 972-17 adopted by the
Council on August 16, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #5778, 9302 Miles Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 26312750205, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 972-17, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 133-18.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 11511 Kinsman
Road and repealing Resolution No.
1183-17, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar, #8938, 11511 Kinsman Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent Number 26312750685 by
Resolution No. 1183-17 adopted by
the Council on October 2, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #8938, 11511 Kinsman Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 26312750685, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1183-17, containing such

16
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 134-18.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 14035 Puritas
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 51-18, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar, #2371, 14035 Puritas
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent Number 26312750795 by Resolution No. 51-18 adopted by the
Council on January 8, 2018; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #2371, 14035 Puritas Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent
Number 26312750795, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 51-18, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 135-18.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 16122 Lake Shore
Boulevard and repealing Resolution
No. 1050-17, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar, #6254, 16122 Lake

The City Record
Shore Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44110,
Permanent
Number
26312750345 by Resolution No. 105017 adopted by the Council on September 18, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #6254, 16122 Lake Shore
Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44110,
Permanent Number 26312750345, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1050-17, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1451-17.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance designating Apostolic Faith Tabernacle
Church
(Knesseth
Israel
Synagogue) as a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1456-17.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance designating Greater Abyssinia Baptist
Church as a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1458-17.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance designating the Kausek Brothers Building as a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Development Planning and Sustainability.

116

January 31, 2018
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 16-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into contract with
the Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission for legal services
necessary
to
defend
indigents
charged with violation of ordinances
of the City of Cleveland that may
result
in
incarceration,
for
the
Cleveland Municipal Court for a
period of one year, with one option
to renew for an additional year,
exercisable
by
the
Director
of
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 3, lines 1 and 2,
strike “funds approved by the Director of Finance” and insert “Fund No.
01-0115-6320, RQS 0115, RL 2018-11.”.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 81-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. CT 9998 PS 2016-296 with
JIJ Communications LLC to provide
professional services necessary for
the development, support, and management
of
communication
and
media strategies, and related services.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1361-17.
By Council Member Kazy.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height District of parcels
along the southerly side of Lorain
Ave between West 138th Street and
West 139th Street, including two
parcels west of West 139th Street as
identified on the attached map (Map
Change No. 2576).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Bishop, the absence of Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland is hereby
authorized. Seconded by Council
Member Brady.

The City Record

January 31, 2018
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:20 p.m. to meet on Monday, February 5, 2018, at 7:00 p.m. in the
Council Chamber.

Allan Dreyer
Deputy Clerk
Clerk of Council Pro Tempore

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
January 24, 2018
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 24,
2018 at 10:35 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Davis, Kennedy, Cox, Gordon, McGrath, Interim Director Jackson, Director West, Interim Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Tiffany White Johnson,
Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
Melissa Burrows, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On
motions,
the
resolutions
attached were adopted, except as
may be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 12-18.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Binkowsky-Dougherty Distribution for an estimated quantity of
lumber materials, equipment and
supplies, all items, for the various
divisions, Department of Finance,
for a period of one year starting
upon the later of the execution of a
contract or the day following expiration of the currently effective contract, with an option to renew for
one additional year exercisable by
the Director of Finance for the
goods or services, received on January 17, 2018, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 108-17, passed February 13, 2017, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to $257,977.33 (1% net 10
days), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Finance is requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
the goods and/or services, for the
specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for such goods and/or services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered

under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas, Davis, Kennedy, Cox, Gordon, McGrath, Interim Director Jackson, Director West, Interim Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 13-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under
the
authority
of
Section
129.294 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, CDM Smith
Inc. is selected from a list of firms
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Public
Utilities as the firm to be employed
by contract to provide professional
consulting
services
for
General
Engineering Services X, and other
services including, but not limited
to, engineering design, preparing
feasibility studies and engineering
analyses, plan review, planning,
construction monitoring and inspection, environmental site assessment,
identification of surface and subsurface conditions, preparation of
reports for regulatory agencies, specialized technical assistance, water
quality, and other related professional consulting services, on an as
needed basis, for a period of two
years, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
CDM Smith Inc. based upon its proposal dated September 1, 2017, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide that
the compensation for the professional services described in the proposal shall not exceed $2,000,000.00,
and shall contain such other provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by CDM Smith Inc. for
the
above-mentioned
professional
services is approved:
SUB-CONSULTANTS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

CT Consultants, Inc.
(CSB)

$400,000.00
20.00%

Metco of Ohio, Inc. (CSB)$ 60,000.00
3.00%
Somat Engineering of
Ohio, Inc. (CSB)

$100,000.00
5.00%

Algebra AEC (Non-Certified)
$ 60,000.00
0.00%
Mackey Engineering and
Survey (CSB)
$ 80,000.00
4.00%
Corrpro Co., Inc. (Non-Certified)
$ 12,240.00
0.00%
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Kennedy, Cox, Gordon, McGrath,
Interim Director Jackson, Director
West, Interim Director Ebersole,
Director McNamara, and Interim
Director Donald.

117

17
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 14-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under
the
authority
of
Section
129.294 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, DLZ Ohio, Inc.
is selected from a list of firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Public Utilities as the firm to be employed by
contract to provide professional consulting services for General Engineering Services X, and other services including, but not limited to,
engineering design, preparing feasibility
studies
and
engineering
analyses, plan review, planning,
construction monitoring and inspection, environmental site assessment,
identification of surface and subsurface conditions, preparation of
reports for regulatory agencies, specialized technical assistance, water
quality, and other related professional consulting services, on an as
needed basis, for a period of two
years, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
DLZ Ohio, Inc. based upon its proposal dated September 1, 2017, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide that
the compensation for the professional services described in the proposal shall not exceed $2,000,000.00,
and shall contain such other provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by DLZ Ohio, Inc. for
the
above-mentioned
professional
services is approved:
SUB-CONSULTANTS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Osborn Engineering (CSB)
$200,000.00
10.00%
R2O Consulting, LLC
(CSB)

$100,000.00
5.00%

CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc.
(Non-Certified)
$600,000.00
0.00%
T&M Associates (Non-Certified)
$100,000.00
0.00%
World International Testing,
Inc. (Non-Certified)
$ 50,000.00
0.00%
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Kennedy, Cox, Gordon, McGrath,
Interim Director Jackson, Director
West, Interim Director Ebersole,
Director McNamara, and Interim
Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 15-18.
By Director Davis.
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 001-18, adopted January
10, 2018, resolved that Resolution No.

The City Record

18
597-17, adopted by this Board November 29, 2017, approving the bid of
Chemtrade Chemicals Corporation
dba Chemtrade Chemicals US LLC
as the lowest and best for an estimated quantity of powdered activated carbon, all items, was amended
by
substituting
“Chemtrade
Chemicals US LLC” for “Chemtrade
Chemicals Corporation dba Chemtrade Chemicals US LLC”, where
appearing; and
Whereas, the resolution number
and the commodity description were
incorrect; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 001-18, adopted by
this Board January 10, 2018 is
amended by substituting “602-17” for
“597-17”
and
substituting
“liquid
alum coagulant, item 1” for “powdered activated carbon, all items”,
where appearing.
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolutions No. 60217 and 001-18 not expressly amended above shall remain unchanged
and in full force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Kennedy, Cox, Gordon, McGrath,
Interim Director Jackson, Director
West, Interim Director Ebersole,
Director McNamara, and Interim
Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 16-18.
By Director Davis.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1340-13, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
November 11, 2013, and Resolutions
Nos. 017-15, 079-15, 323-15, 380-16, and
488-17 respectively adopted by this
Board of Control on January 21,
2015, March 18, 2015, August 26, 2015,
August 24, 2016, and September 27,
2017, the City, through its Director
of Public Utilities, entered into City
Contract No. RC2015-23 with Energy
Mechanical Corp. for labor and
materials to provide maintenance,
repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating, ventilation and air
conditioning systems, bid items 1.011.06, 1.08 and 1.09, for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, for the various divisions
of the Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, by its January 10, 2018
letter,
Energy
Mechanical
Corp.
requested the City’s consent for one
additional subcontractor; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
additional subcontractor by Energy
Mechanical Corp. under RC2015-23 is
approved:
Subcontractor

Work
Percentage

Gardiner Service Co. LLC dba
Gardiner (non-certified) $50,000.00
0.000%
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Kennedy, Cox, Gordon, McGrath,
Interim Director Jackson, Director
West, Interim Director Ebersole,
Director McNamara, and Interim
Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.

Resolution No. 17-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of RGT Services, LLC dba
The Fowler Company for an estimated quantity of Labor and Materials Necessary to Repair and Maintain Decorative and Special Lighting on Bridges Re-bid, Item #5,
items 5A-1 thru 5A-3, 5A-5 thru 5A-6,
5B-1 thru 5B-2, 5B-4 thru 5B-6, 5C-1
thru 5C-3, 5C-5 thru 5C-6, 5D-1 thru
5D-3, 5D-5 thru 5D-6, 5E-1 thru 5E-3,
5E-5 thru 5E-6, 5F-1 thru 5F-3, 5F-5
thru 5F-6, 5G-1 thru 5G-2, 5G-4 thru
5G-5, 5H-1 thru 5H-2, 5H-4 thru 5H-5,
5I-1 thru 5I-3, 5I-5 thru 5I-6, 5J-1 thru
5J-3, 5J-5 thru 5J-6, 5K-1 thru 5K-3,
5K-5 thru 5K-6, 5L-1 thru 5L-3, 5L-5
thru 5L-6, 5M-1 thru 5M-2, 5M-4 thru
5M-5, 5N-1 thru 5N-2, 5N-4 thru 5N-5,
5O-1 thru 5O-3, 5O-5 thru 5O-6, 5P-1
thru 5P-3, 5P-5 thru 5P-6, 5Q-1 thru
5Q-3, 5Q-5 thru 5Q-6, 5R-1 thru 5R-3,
5R-5 thru 5R-6, 5S-1 thru 5S-2, 5S-4
thru 5S-5, 5T-1 thru 5T-2, 5T-4 thru
5T-5, 5U-1 thru 5U-3, 5U-5 thru 5U-6,
5V-1 thru 5V-3, 5V-5 thru 5V-6, 5W-1
thru 5W-3, 5W-5 thru 5W-6, 5X (all
items), 5Y (all items), 5Z (all
items), 5AA (all items), and 5.1 (all
items), for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two years
starting upon the later of execution
of a contract or the day following
expiration of the currently effective
contract for the goods or services,
with two (2) one-year options to
renew, received on October 20, 2017,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1277-16, passed November 28, 2016,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $75,263.00,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
required goods and/or services necessary for the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Kennedy, Cox, Gordon, McGrath,
Interim Director Jackson, Director
West, Interim Director Ebersole,
Director McNamara, and Interim
Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 18-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Nerone and Sons, Inc. for
the public improvement of Morgan
Improvements
A,
including
a
$131,700.00 contingency allowance,
all items, for the Division of Water,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received on November 3, 2017, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 140615, passed November 30, 2015, upon
a unit basis for the improvement in
the
aggregate
amount
of
$1,448,700.00,
is
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.

118

January 31, 2018
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Nerone and Sons, Inc. for the abovementioned public improvement is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

CK Insulation LLC (CSB) $ 4,600.00
0.3%
Construction Support Solutions
(FBE)
$12,900.00
0.9%
Timeline Photography
(CSB)

$ 8,650.00
0.6%

Summit Painting (FBE)

$33,500.00
2.3%

Tech Ready Mix (MBE)

$57,000.00
3.9%

Coleman Spohn (MBE)

$90,000.00
6.2%

Cunningham Paving
(CSB)

VIP Electric (FBE)

Chagrin Valley Steel
(FBE)

Marra Services (CSB)

$45,500.00
3.1%
$34,000.00
2.3%

$17,500.00
1.2%
$36,000.00
2.5%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Kennedy, Cox, Gordon, McGrath,
Interim Director Jackson, Director
West, Interim Director Ebersole,
Director McNamara, and Interim
Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 19-18.
By Director Kennedy.
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 571.85 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Director of Port Control is authorized to fix fees for parking aircraft
on City-owned and operated ramp
areas at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport: and Burke Lakefront Airport in the amounts as the
Director deems appropriate, and as
approved by the Board of Control;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that under the authority of Section
571.85 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the following
fees fixed by the Director of Port
Control for parking aircraft at nonleased, City-owned and operated
ramp areas adjacent to the terminal
building at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport
are
set
and
approved:
Public Aircraft:
Private Aircraft,
Commercial Aircraft,
Corporate Aircraft,
Scheduled Air Carrier
Aircraft,
and Private Aircraft
transporting persons
for business purposes:

No Charge

$100.00

The City Record

January 31, 2018
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland, that under the authority
of Section 139.051 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the following landing fees at Burke
Lakefront Airport, as fixed by the
Commissioner
of
Airports,
are
approved:
Public Aircraft:

No Charge

Private Aircraft, Commercial Aircraft, Corporate Aircraft, Scheduled
Air Carrier Aircraft, and Private
Aircraft transporting persons for
business purposes
Single Engine Aircraft:

$7.00

Helicopters:

$5.00

Multi-Engine
Aircraft
Weight as follows:
0 - 5,000 lbs.
5,001 - 10,000 lbs.
10,001 - 12,500 lbs.
12,501 - 97,999 lbs.

98,000 lbs. and over

by

Gross

Up to $7.00
Up to $10.00
Up to $12.00
Up to $1.50 per
1,000 lbs.
gross wt.
Up to $2.00 per
1,000 lbs
gross wt.

Be it further resolved that under
the authority of Section 571.85 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the following fees fixed
by the Director of Port Control for
parking aircraft on City-owned and
operated ramp areas at Burke Lakefront Airport are set and approved:
DAILY PARKING/TIE-DOWN FEES
ON DESIGNATED CITY RAMPS
Public Aircraft and
Mercy Flights
No Charge
Private Aircraft,
Commercial Aircraft,
Corporate Aircraft,
Scheduled Air Carrier
Aircraft,
and Private Aircraft
transporting persons for
business purposes:
For periods from
0-2 hours:

No Charge

For periods from 2 - 24 hours, and
for each additional 24 hour period,
or portion thereof, as follows:
Single-Engine Aircraft
and Helicopters:

$5.00

Multi-Engine Aircraft Weight as follows:
0 - 10,000 lbs.
$5.00
10,000 lbs. - 12,500 lbs.
$10.00
12,501 lbs. - and over $1.00 per 1,000
lbs. gross wt.
MONTHLY
FEES
ON
RAMPS

PARKING/TIE-DOWN
DESIGNATED
CITY

Single-Engine and
Helicopters

$50.00

Multi-Engine Aircraft by Weight as
follows:
0 - 10,000 lbs.
10,001 lbs. and over

$50.00
$100.00

Be it further resolved for the purpose of this Resolution, the following definitions shall apply:

19

“Commercial Aircraft” shall mean
an aircraft carrying persons or property for compensation or hire.

Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.

“Corporate Aircraft” shall mean a
company owned aircraft transporting persons or property for business
purposes.

Resolution No. 21-18.
By Interim Director Jackson.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 118-09-097 located on Sagamore
Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Jeannie Thomas has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Jeannie Thomas
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 118-09-097 located
on Sagamore Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Kennedy, Cox, Gordon, McGrath,
Interim Director Jackson, Director
West, Interim Director Ebersole,
Director McNamara, and Interim
Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.

“Gross Weight” shall mean the
maximum allowable certified gross
landing weight.
“Mercy Flight” shall mean an air
medical transport flight that is operated by a non-profit or a for-profit
provider of air medical transport
where the flight is provided at no
cost.
“Private Aircraft” shall mean an
aircraft that is not a Commercial
Aircraft, Corporate Aircraft, Public
Aircraft, or Scheduled Air Carrier
Aircraft.
“Public Aircraft” shall mean an
aircraft used in the service of a government entity at the local, state or
federal level.
“Scheduled
Air
Carrier”
shall
mean an airline that submits schedules in advance and reports landings on a monthly basis to the
Department of Port Control.
Be it further resolved that Resolution No. 311-16, adopted July 6,
2016, is rescinded, and that the
charges and fees shall be in force
and effect for a period not to exceed
one year from January 1, 2018 to
December 31, 2018.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Kennedy, Cox, Gordon, McGrath,
Interim Director Jackson, Director
West, Interim Director Ebersole,
Director McNamara, and Interim
Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 20-18.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Northeast Lubricants,
LTD, for an estimated quantity of
Antifreeze/Coolant, all items, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department
of
Public
Works, for a period of two (2)
years, beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
January 5, 2018 under the authority
of Section No. 131.64 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $92,455.00
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Works is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services
specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Kennedy, Cox, Gordon, McGrath,
Interim Director Jackson, Director
West, Interim Director Ebersole,
Director McNamara, and Interim
Director Donald.

119

JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.

The City Record

20
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination
as
soon
as
the
commission has graded the papers.
There-after, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2018
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 18-04: 4427 Rocky River
Drive (Ward 17)
St. Patrick R.C. Church, owner,
and John T. Foundation, tenant, propose to establish use as drug/ alcohol residential rehabilitation facility for 40 residents and 4 staff, with
residential, counseling and life-skill
programs in an A1 One-Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the strict application
of Section 337.02(f)(3)(D) of the
Cleveland
Codified
Ordinances
which states that a rehabilitation
facility is permitted in a One family Districts if not for drug or liquor
residents. (Filed January 8, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-10: 1852-56 East 101st
Street (Ward 7)
Cleveland Construction Inc., proposes to establish use as temporary
storage of a construction trailer and
parking on a vacant parcel owned
by the City of Cleveland located in
an E2 Multi-Family Residential District. The applicant appeals for
relief from the strict application of
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 337.08 which states that
in Multi-Family District storage of a
construction trailer is not a permitted use.
2. Section 329.06 which states that
The board of Zoning Appeals may,
after public notice and hearing and
subject to appropriate conditions
and safeguards, permit in undeveloped sections of the city for not
more than a two (2) year period a
building or other structure or use
which does not conform to the use
regulation of the district in which it
is to be located. Such permit may be
renewed for two (2) year period
when the general conditions of the
neighborhood have remained practically unchanged.
3. Section 327.02(e) which states
that this application is for PPN 11912-058 a plot plan drawn to scale

shall be submitted with each application.
4. Section 349.07 which states that
the parking lot must be paved and
drained within lot.
5. Section 349.13 which states that
parking in a residential district
requires BZA approval. (Received
January 9, 2018)
Waste Collection Appeal
Calendar No. 18-011: 4093 East 66th
Street(Ward 12)
Maria Chelbezan, owner, appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances and
disputes the decision of the hearing
examiner
in
Parking
Violations
Bureau on December 29, 2017 concerning the City of Cleveland Waste
Collection issuance of Civil Infraction
Ticket
Number
WC00373563
issued November 16, 2017 regarding
failure
to
comply
with
Section
551.111(B) in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances. (Filed January 9, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-12: 2011 Broadview
Road (Ward 13)
Ashok Kumar, owner, proposes to
change use from bar to retail stores
(front building and garage) in a B1
Local Retail Business District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 349.04(f) which states
that parking for retail stores is
required at the rate of one space per
each 500 square feet and no striped
parking spaces shown.
2. Section 349.07(a) which states
that the parking area must be
paved, and graded for drainage of
all water within the lot. No surfacing or drainage details are shown.
3. Sections 352.08 through 352.12
which state that six foot wide landscaping strip is required where lot
abuts residential district. No landscaping plan submitted.
4. Section 352.07(b)(2)(A) which
states that a continuation of a nonconformity in landscaping upon a
change of use requires the approval
of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
5. Section 327.02(e) which states
that a site plan showing all features
of the property, including parking
spaces,
landscaping,
paved
and
unpaved areas, and driveways is
required. (Filed January 9, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-14: 8700 Denison
Avenue (Ward 14)
Mihai Dobre, owner, proposes to
erect a storage building on a vacant
lot and use property as storage on
a parcel of land that is located in a
B1 Two-Family Residential and a C2
Local Retail Business. The owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of Sections 337.03 and
343.01 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances which state that storage
is not permitted as a main use of
property in Residential or Local
Retail Business zoning district but
is first permitted in Semi-Industry
District. (January 16, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-33: 5805-5813 Hough
Avenue (Ward 7)
Sterling Pettway, owner, proposes
to establish use as a fence contracting company with outdoor storage and to install an 8 foot tall

120

January 31, 2018
chain link fence D2 Multi-Family
Residential
District.
The
owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of Section of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1.
Section
345.03(c)(33)
which
states that warehouse and outdoor
storage use is first permitted in
Semi Industrial District. Any material stored in unenclosed premises to
a height greater than 4 feet above
the grade level shall be a surrounded by a substantial 7 foot high
wall or fence erected to observe all
required building lines and chain
link fence proposed.
2. Section 349.01 which states that
a parking area in amount of 15% of
the gross lot area is required and no
off street parking proposed.
3. Section 349.07 which states that
all vehicle maneuvering areas shall
be paved and drained within the lot.
Only one driveway shall be permitted for each 100 feet of frontage. No
driveway shall be so located that
there would be less than 15 feet
between the point of tangency of
the driveway apron radius and the
outside crosswalk the proposed new
driveway is directly adjacent to the
crosswalk.
4. Sections 352.08 through 352.11
which state that eight feet of landscaped transition strip is required
where
a
Semi-Industry
District
would abut a Multi-Family District.
Installation is required of screening
with 75% or greater opacity of sufficient height to conceal uses specified herein (outdoor storage) from
view from the ground floor level on
adjoining properties and from the
street and no landscaping proposed.
5. Section 358.04 which states that
in residential districts, fences in
actual front yards and in actual
front yards and in actual side street
yards shall not exceed 4 feet in
height. Fences in actual rear yard
and actual interior side yard shall
not exceed 6 feet in height.
6. Section 358.04(b) which states
that in residential districts, only
ornamental fences shall be installed
in actual front yards. (Filed January 26, 2018)
POSTPONED FROM
JANUARY 2, 2018
Calendar No. 17-358: 5809 Hough
Avenue (Ward 7)
Sterling Pettway, owner, proposes
to install an (8) eight feet tall chain
link fence in a D2 Multi-Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the strict application
of Section of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 358.04(a) which states
that fences in actual front yard and
in actual side street yards shall not
exceed four (4) feet in height.
2. Section 358.04(b) which states
that in Residential Districts, only
ornamental fences, as defined herein, shall be installed in actual front
yards and in actual side street yards
if located within four (4) feet of the
side street property line. The Board
of Zoning Appeals may however permit a chain link fence if the Board
determines that such fence is common in the immediate vicinity of the
subject property. (Filed December 4,
2017 - Testimony Taken)

January 31, 2018
Calendar No. 17-359: 5813 Hough
Avenue (Ward 7)
Sterling Pettway, owner, proposes
to install an (8) eight feet tall chain
link fence in a D2 Multi-Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the strict application
of Section of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 358.04(a) which states
that fences in actual front yard and
in actual side street yards shall not
exceed four (4) feet in height.
2. Section 358.04(b) which states
that in Residential Districts, only
ornamental fences, as defined herein, shall be installed in actual front
yards and in actual side street yards
if located within four (4) feet of the
side street property line. The Board
of Zoning Appeals may however permit a chain link fence if the Board
determines that such fence is common in the immediate vicinity of the
subject property. (Filed December 4,
2017 - Testimony Taken)
Postponed at the request of the
Board to allow time for the appellant to meet with the City Planner
about the proposed storage use.
POSTPONED FROM
JANUARY 8, 2018
Calendar No. 17-361: 5804 Denison
Avenue (Ward 14)
Fulton Denison LLC., owner, proposes to construct a parking lot in
a C2 Local Retail Business District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1.
Section
343.01(b)(4)
which
states that a Parking lot in a Local
District shall meet section 349.13(c)
requirements
and
requires
BZA
approval.
2. Section 349.13(c) states that the
Board of Zoning Appeals may permit, temporarily or permanently, the
use of land in Local Retail Business
District for a parking lot when the
best interests of the community will
be serviced, and provided than:
• The lot is to be sues only for
the parking of passenger automobiles of employees, customers or
guests of the person or firm controlling and operating the lot, who
shall be responsible for its maintenance,
• No charge is to be made for
parking on the lot.
• The lot is not to be used for
sales, repair work or servicing of
any kind.
• Entrance to and exit from the
lot are to be located so as to do the
least harm to the residence district.
• No advertising sign or material
is to be located on the lot.
• All parking is to be kept back
of the setback building line by barrier unless specifically authorized
otherwise by the Board.
• The parking lot and that portion of the driveway back of the
building line are to be adequately
screened from the street and from
adjoining property in a Residence
District by a hedge, slightly fence
or wall not less than four feet six
inches high and not more than five
feet high located back of the setback building line. All lightening is
to be arranged so that there will be
no glare than is annoying to the

The City Record

21

occupants of adjoining property in a
Residence District, and the surface
of the parking lot is to be smoothly graded, hard surfaced and adequately drained; 4’ high coated
chain link fence is proposed within
front setback and at back of setback.
• The building permit number
under which the lot is established is
to be posted;
• Such other and further conditions may be imposed as the Board
may deem necessary in any specific
case to reduce the adverse effect of
the proximity of a parking lot upon
the
character,
development
and
maintenance of the Residence District in which the parking lot is to
be located.
3. Section 349.07 which states that
all
accessory
off-street
parking
spaces shall be provided with wheel
or bumper guards that are so located that no part of a parked vehicle
will extend beyond such parking
spaces.
4. Sections 352.09 through 352.11
which state that an 8 foot wide transition strip is required where parking lot is adjacent to residential and
a 1 foot wide transition strip is proposed.
5. Section 349.07 which states that
parking space and maneuvering
areas shall be hard surfaced and
properly drained. (Filed December 4,
2017 - No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the Development Corporation to allow time for the community process to take place.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
29, 2018, the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 17-247: 8606 Denison
Avenue
WHS Realty, owner, proposes to
change use from gas station to car
rental facility in a C1 Local Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 17-343: 3951 Rocky
River Drive
Reach Counseling Services, owner,
proposes to change use from a daycare to a group home in a B1 Two
Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 17-377: 1977 East 126th
Street
WXZ Development Incorp., owner,
proposes to erect a 28' x 60' four
story frame single family residence
with attached garage in a C1 MultiFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 17-378: 1979 East 126th
Street
WXZ Development Incorp., owner,
proposes to erect a 28' x 34' four
story frame single family residence
with attached garage in a C1 MultiFamily Residential District.

121

Calendar No. 17-379: 1981 East 126th
Street
WXZ Development Incorp., owner,
proposes to erect a 28' x 34' four
story frame single family residence
with attached garage in a C1 MultiFamily Residential District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

appeals

were

None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

Calendar
No.
17-325:
Hashem
2285 Ashland Road.

Saady

A.

Calendar No. 17-376: DP Towing &
Auto Salvage
6808 Bushnell Court.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following cases were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 17-324: 4Ever Social
Club, LLC
5437 Broadway Avenue. Postponed
to March 26, 2018.
Calendar No. 17-347: 1235 Euclid Ave
Cleveland, LLC
1260/1212 Sumner Avenue. Postponed to February 26, 2018.
Calendar No. 17-374: Kamcor Realty
16900 Lorain Avenue. Postponed to
March 5, 2018.
The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, January 22, 2018 and the
decisions
were
adopted
and
approved on Monday, January 29,
2018:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 17-351: 15619 Waterloo
Road
Spacepop LLC., owner, proposes to
establish use as an art gallery and
sales and a catering facility in a C2
Local Retail Business District and a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District
(PRO).
Calendar No. 17-368: 1976 West 44th
Street
Sean Rooney, owner, proposes to
erect a 2,074 square foot single family residence in a B1 Two-Family
Residential District.
Calendar No. 17-370: 2144 West 18th
Street
Matthias and Monika Bonath, owners, propose to erect a 22' x 72'-6"
three story frame single family residence with attached garage in a B1
Multi-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 17-373: 1314 West 103rd
Street
Zach Miklowski, owner, proposes
to erect a 24' x 24' wood frame
garage with upper floor storage on
a 5,400 square foot lot in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Secretary

The City Record

22
REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
January 24, 2018
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is given
for publication in the City Record:
*  *  *
Docket A-118-17.
RE: Appeal of Terry Poltorek/3705
Company, Inc./HP Manufacturing
Co., Inc., Owner of the Property,
located on the premises known as
3705
Carnegie
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE
CODE, dated May 17, 2017 of the
Chief of the Division of Fire, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until April 1, 2018 to
resolve the issues; the property is
REMANDED at this time the Division of Fire for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
*  *  *
Docket A-204-17.
RE: Appeal of State Of Ohio C/O
Linda Bell & Robert Perry, Owner
of the One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence Two Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 3123 West 68th Street
from a VACATE ORDER & NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — HAZARDOUS
CONDITIONS, dated September 21,
2017 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Notice of Violation — Hazardous
Conditions & Vacate Order were
properly issued and to REMAND the
property at this time to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
*  *  *
Docket A-205-17.
RE: Appeal of Harry Wilson Jr.,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame and One & One/half Story
Garage — Detached; Wood Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 3480 Kimmel Road from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 13,
2017 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,

January 31, 2018

requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued and to REMAND the property to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.

One & One/half Story Masonry Property, located on the premises known
as 2140 Scranton Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE
DAMAGE, dated October 5, 2017 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-221-17 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.

*  *  *

Docket A-222-17.
RE: Appeal of NexFinder LLC,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 2148 West 104th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated October 9, 2017 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until April 1, 2018 to complete abatement of the violations,
including the steps; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.

Docket A-208-17.
RE: Appeal of Antonio Spencer,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
16724 Grovewood Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated September 22, 2017 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until August 18, 2018 to
complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
*  *  *
Docket A-211-17.
RE: Appeal of Jorge Garcia Sr.,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3325 Roehl Avenue from a NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated September
28, 2017 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until February 1, 2018 to
obtain all required permits and until
April 1, 2018 to complete abatement
of the violations, noting that failure
to meet either date will Remand the
property immediately; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
*  *  *
Docket A-221-17.
RE: Appeal of Scranton-Averell,
Inc., Owner of the S-2 Storage —
Low
Hazard
(Non-Combustibles)

122

*  *  *

*  *  *
Docket A-227-17.
RE: Appeal of Ashok Kumar &
Seema Rani, Owners of the MXD
Mixed Uses — Multiple Uses In One
Building Two Story Frame Property, located on the premises known
as 2011 Broadview Road from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated October 24, 2017 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellants request for additional
time; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
*  *  *
Docket A-228-17.
RE: Appeal of David Lunt, Owner
of Two Dwelling Units Two-Family
Residence Two Story Frame Property, located on the premises known
as 2138 West 105th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated October 11, 2017 of the Director of the

The City Record

January 31, 2018
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until March 1, 2018 to
obtain all required permits and until
May 1, 2018 to complete abatement
of all violations on the property; noting that failure to meet either date
Remands the property immediately;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned
by
Mr.
Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
*  *  *
Docket A-230-17.
RE:
Appeal
of
James
Grunt,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence One Story
Garage — Detached; Wood Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 4894 West 13th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
GARAGE, dated October 16, 2017 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until March 1, 2018 to
obtain all required permits and until
May 1, 2018 to complete abatement
of the violations; noting that failure
to meet either date Remands the
property immediately; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.

Docket A-233-17.
RE: Appeal of Vivian N. Amujiogu, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
& One/half Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
18304 Lasalle Road from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — NO PERMIT,
dated November 6, 2017 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
contractor, WE Construction, LLC is
responsible for the violations and
obtaining all required permits for
the work, and to find that the property owner, Vivian N. Amujiogu, is
not the responsible party; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.

Housing for supervision and any
required further action….
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
*  *  *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-212-17 — Frank A. Haugh
A-215-17 — Rockefeller Building
Associates
A-216-17 — Scott Sigart (Amended)
A-217-17 — Capital Properties LLC
A-218-17 — Ronald Gray
A-220-17 — Paul B. Garrison II
A-231-17 — Erick Rodriguez
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.

*  *  *
Docket A-12-18.
RE: Appeal of Project 29 Partners,
LLC, Owner of the Property, located
on the premises known as 2861
Detroit Avenue from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated December
20, 2017 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to approve the
arrangements
presented
on
the
plans, noting that the variance to
the code is provided to permit the
arrangement. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Gallagher, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: Mr. Denk. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*  *  *

*  *  *
EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-232-17.
RE: Appeal of JSAW3LTD, Owner
of the MXD Mixed Uses — Multiple
Uses In One Building Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 2389 West 5th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated October 23, 2017 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until March 1, 2018 to submit plans to the Building Department to obtain all required permits;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned
by
Mr.
Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.

23

Docket A-135-17.
W. 6th St. Partners — 1280 West
6th Street.
Docket A-135-17 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for February 7, 2018.
*  *  *
AMENDED RESOLUTION:
Docket A-216-17.
Scott Sigart — 5964 Engle Avenue:
FROM:…to find that the Violation
Notice was properly issued, and due
to the conditions of the property and
lack of concern by the owner, additional time is DENIED; the property is REMANDED….
TO:…to grant the Appellant until
July 1, 2018 to obtain all required
permits and complete abatement of
the violations on the property, the
property is to remain groomed and
clean during that period of time; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and

123

*  *  *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-223-17
A-224-17
A-225-17
A-226-17

—
—
—
—

1960-B,
1960-C,
1960-D,
1960-A,

LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley. Nays: Mr. Maschke. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*  *  *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Minutes as presented by
the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC):
January 10, 2018
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
*  *  *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

The City Record

24
CITY of CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
File No. 10‑18 — Room 518 Renovations,
for the Division of Architecture and
Site Development, Office of Capital
Projects,
as
authorized
by
Ordinance No. 550‑17, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 5, 2017.
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NON‑REFUNDABLE FEE FOR
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS IN
THE AMOUNT OF TWENTY‑FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH, AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS.
ALL
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS MUST BE
PURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM
THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES.)
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NON‑MANDATORY
PRE‑BID
MEETING, WEDNESDAY, JAN UARY 31, 2018 AT 10:00 A.M.
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, 601
LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVE LAND, OHIO 44114, ROOM 517A.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES, CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,

OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
January 24, 2018 and January 31, 2018
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2018
File
No.
8‑1 8
—
Music
Hall
Improvements Roof Repairs, for the
Division of Architecture and Site
Development, Office of Capital
Proj e c t s ,
as
authorized
by
Ordinance No. 733‑14, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 9, 2014.
THER E
WILL
BE
A
NON‑R E F U N D A B L E F E E F O R
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS IN
THE AMOUNT OF TWENTY- FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHE C K S , N O C A S H , A N D N O
CRE D I T
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACC E P T E D
TO
PURCHASE
PLA N S .
ALL
PLANS
AND
SPE C I F I C A T I O N S M U S T B E
PURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM
THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES.)
THER E
WILL
BE
A
NON‑M A N D A T O R Y
P R E‑B I D
MEETING, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY
2, 2018 AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND
CIT Y H A L L , 6 0 1 L A K E S I D E
AVE N U E , C L E V E L A N D , O H I O
44114, ROOM 517A.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT T H E O F F I C E O F T H E
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND S U P P L I E S , C L E V E L A N D
CIT Y H A L L , 6 0 1 L A K E S I D E
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
File No. 9‑18 — First Energy Stadium
2018 General Improvements, for the
Division of Architecture and Site
Development, Office of Capital
Proj e c t s ,
as
authorized
by
Ordinance No. 805‑16, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
August 10, 2016.
THER E
WILL
BE
A
NON‑R E F U N D A B L E F E E F O R
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS IN
THE
AMOUNT
OF
FIFTY
DOLLARS ($50.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHE C K S , N O C A S H , A N D N O
CRE D I T
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACC E P T E D
TO
PURCHASE
PLA N S .
ALL
PLANS
AND
SPE C I F I C A T I O N S M U S T B E
PURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM
THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES.)
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE‑BID MEETING, MONDAY,
FEBRUARY 5, 2018 AT 10:00 A.M.
CLE V E L A N D C I T Y H A L L , 6 0 1
LAK E S I D E A V E N U E , C L E V E LAND, OHIO 44114, ROOM 517A.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT T H E O F F I C E O F T H E
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND S U P P L I E S , C L E V E L A N D
CIT Y H A L L , 6 0 1 L A K E S I D E
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
January 24, 2018 and January 31, 2018
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2018
File N o . 1 4 - 1 8 — C a m p F o r b e s
Recreation Center Multi-Purpose
Room (Re-Bid), for the Division of

124

January 31, 2018
Architecture and Site Development,
Office of Capital Projects as
authorized by Ordinance No. 139516, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, January 30, 2017.
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK OR MONEY
ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO CASH, AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE PLANS. ALL PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS MUST BE
PURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM
THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES.)
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONMANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018
AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM, 601 LAKESIDE
A V E N U E , C L E V E L A N D , OH I O
44114, ROOM 517.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES, CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
January 31, 2018 and February 7, 2018
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2018
File No. 11-18 — 2018 A-Water Main
Renewal, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities as
authorized by Ordinance No. 698-16,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, July 13, 2016.
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
A M O U N T O F T W E N T Y FI V E
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH, AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS.
ALL
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS MUST BE
PURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM
THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES.)
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONMANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2018
AT 10:30 A.M. CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
4TH
FLOOR
ATRIUM
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1201
LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES, CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
January 31, 2018 and February 7, 2018
THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2018
File No. 12-18 — 2018 B-Water Main
Renewal, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities as
authorized by Ordinance No. 698-16,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, July 13, 2016.
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS

January 31, 2018
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH, AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS.
ALL
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS MUST BE
PURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM
THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES.)
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONMANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2018
AT 10:30 A.M. CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
4TH
FLOOR
ATRIUM
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1201
LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVE LAND, OHIO 44114.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES, CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
January 31, 2018 and February 7, 2018
FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2018
File No. 13-18 — Water Main
Maintenance and Insulation
Replacement on Bridge Crossings,
for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities as
authorized by Ordinance No. 698-16,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, July 13, 2016.
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH, AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS.
ALL
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS MUST BE
PURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM
THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES.)
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONMANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018 AT
11:30 A.M. CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
4TH
FLOOR
ATRIUM
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1201
LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVE LAND, OHIO 44114.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES, CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
January 31, 2018 and February 7, 2018

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 24-18.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution approving the adoption of the Countywide
All Hazards Mitigation Plan for
Cuyahoga County, 2017 Update.

The City Record
Whereas, hazard mitigation is any
sustainable action taken to reduce
or eliminate damage from future
disaster; and
Whereas, the Disaster Mitigation
Act of 2000 requires all communities
that desire to apply for federal mitigation programs to have an all-natural hazard mitigation plan; and
Whereas, the Disaster Mitigation
Act of 2000 also requires communities to review and revise the plan at
least every five (5) years to reflect
changes in development, progress in
local mitigation efforts, and changes
in priorities, in order to continue eligibility to apply for federal mitigation programs; and
Whereas, the all-natural hazard
mitigation plan must meet the criteria established by the Federal
Emergency
Management
Agency
(“FEMA”); and
Whereas, for disasters that are
declared after November 1, 2004 that
the local government must have an
approved mitigation plan; and
Whereas, in collaboration with
participating jurisdictions, the Cuyahoga County Government, through
the Cuyahoga County Office of
Emergency Management developed
and maintains such a mitigation
plan which is entitled the “Countywide All Hazards Mitigation Plan
for Cuyahoga County”; and
Whereas,
each
jurisdiction
requesting approval of the plan
must document that the plan has
been formally adopted; and
Whereas, adoption of the “Countywide All Hazards Mitigation Plan”
is a condition of eligibility to
receive federal mitigation funds
available through the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the adoption of the Countywide All Hazards Mitigation Plan
for Cuyahoga County, 2017 Update.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to the Cuyahoga
County Office of Emergency Management, 9300 Quincy Avenue, 2nd
Floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44106.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

Res. No. 98-18.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 2152 Brookpark
Road and repealing Resolution No.
1167-17, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar #8343, 2152 Brookpark
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44134, Permit
Number 26312750630 by Resolution No.

125

25
1167-17 adopted by the Council on
September 25, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar #8343, 2152 Brookpark Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44134, Permit Number 26312750630, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1167-17, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

Res. No. 99-18.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 8003 Broadway
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 1166-17, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA
Family Dollar #10417, 8003 Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permit Number 26312750340 by Resolution No. 1166-17 adopted by the
Council on September 25, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar
#10417,
8003
Broadway
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit Number 26312750340, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1166-17, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

26
Res. No. 100-18.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 3787 Pearl Road
and repealing Resolution No. 1056-17,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at Family
Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., 3787
Pearl Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
Permit Number 26312750635 by Resolution No. 1056-17 adopted by the
Council on September 18, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., 3787 Pearl Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permit Number 26312750635, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1056-17, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

Res. No. 101-18.
By Council Member Griffin.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
11491 Buckeye Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New C1
Liquor Permit at Dolgen Midwest,
LLC, DBA Dollar General Store
#19255, 11491 Buckeye Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permit Number
22348152885; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and

The City Record
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Dolgen Midwest,
LLC, DBA Dollar General Store
#19255, 11491 Buckeye Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permit Number
22348152885; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

Ord. No. 1432-17.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance approving the Tax Incentive Review Council’s Year 2016 recommendations.
Whereas, under Section 5709.85 of
the Revised Code, if a municipal corporation grants an exemption from
taxation, they shall create a Tax
Incentive Review Council (“TIRC”);
and
Whereas, one of the functions of
the TIRC is to annually review all
agreements
granting
exemptions
from property taxation and to make
recommendations to either continue,
modify, or cancel their agreements
based on various factors, including
fluctuations in the business cycle
unique to the owner’s business; and
Whereas, in compliance with Section 5709.85 of the Revised Code, the
City of Cleveland has created a
TIRC and the TIRC has made written recommendations on exemptions
to be approved by the legislative
authority; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.85 of
the Revised Code, once a legislative
authority receives written recommendations from a tax incentive

126

January 31, 2018
review
council,
that
legislative
authority
has
sixty
days
after
receiving the recommendations, to
hold a meeting and vote to accept,
reject, or modify, all or any portion
of the recommendations; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the TIRC’s Year
2016 recommendations contained in
File No. 1432-17-A are approved.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

Ord. No. 6-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 178.10 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2353-93,
passed February 14, 1994, relating to
security for repayment of deposits.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 178.10 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2353-93, passed February 14, 1994, is amended to read
as follows:
Section 178.10 Security for Repayment of Deposits
(a) The City Treasurer, before
making the initial deposit in an eligible depository designated pursuant to Section 178.03 or before
making an investment in a certificate of deposit pursuant to division
(b)(8)
of
Section
178.12,
shall
require the eligible depository to
pledge to and deposit with the City
Treasurer, as security for the repayment of all public monies to be
deposited in the eligible depository,
eligible securities in the aggregate
market value equal to one hundred
and ten percent (110%) of the
amount of public monies to be at the
time so deposited. In the case of any
deposit other than the initial deposit
made during the period of designation, the amount of the aggregate
market value of securities required
to be pledged and deposited, shall
be equal to one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the amount of public monies on deposit in such public
depository plus one hundred and ten
percent (110%) of the amount to be
so deposited. The City Treasurer
may require additional eligible securities to be deposited to provide for
any depreciation which may occur
in the market value of any of the
securities so deposited. This paragraph shall not apply to a pooled

January 31, 2018
security
arrangement
authorized
under division (c) of this section.
(b) The following securities shall
be eligible securities for the purposes of this section:
(1) Bonds, notes or other obligations of or guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States
or those for which the faith of the
United States is pledged for the payment of principal and interest thereon, by language specifically appearing therein and not merely by interpretation or otherwise;
(2) Bonds, notes, debentures, or
other
obligations
or
securities
issued by any U.S. government
agency, or the export-import bank of
Washington;
(3) Bonds and other obligations of
the State of Ohio guaranteed as to
principal and interest by the State
of Ohio or those for which the full
faith and credit of the State of Ohio
is pledged for the payment of principal and interest thereon by language specifically appearing therein and not merely by interpretation
or otherwise;
(4) Bonds and other obligations of
any county, township, school district, municipal corporation, including the City, or other legally constituted taxing subdivision of the
State of Ohio, which is not, at the
time of such deposit, in default in
the payment of principal or interest
on any of its bonds or other obligations, for which the full faith and
credit of the issuing subdivision is
pledged;
(5) Obligations guaranteed as to
principal and interest by the Ohio
student loan commission;
(6) A no-load money market mutual fund that is registered as an
investment
company
under
the
“Investment Company Act of 1940,”
54 Stat. 789, 15 U.S.C. 80a-1 to 80a-64,
and that has the highest letter or
numerical rating provided by at
least one (1) nationally recognized
standard rating service, consisting
exclusively of obligations described
in division (b)(1) or (2) of this section
and
repurchase
agreements
secured by such obligations.
(c) The City shall not accept as
eligible securities for purposes of this
section any securities which are part
of a pool of securities authorized in RC
135.182, unless authorized in advance
and in writing by the Director of
Finance and the City Treasurer.

The City Record
(d) If the eligible depository fails
to pay over any part of the deposit
made therein as provided by law,
the City Treasurer shall sell at public sale any of the eligible securities
deposited with the City Treasurer
pursuant to this section. Thirty (30)
days notice of such sale shall be
given in a newspaper of general circulation within the City of Cleveland. Pursuant to division (C) of RC
135.18, when a sale of eligible securities has been so made and upon
payment to the City Treasurer of
the purchase money, the City Treasurer shall transfer such eligible
securities, whereupon the absolute
ownership of such eligible securities
shall pass to the purchasers, and
any surplus remaining after deducting the amount due the City of
Cleveland and the expenses of sale
shall be paid to the eligible depository.
(e) An eligible depository may, by
written notice to the City Treasurer, designate a qualified trustee and
deposit
the
eligible
securities
required by this section with the
trustee for safekeeping for the
account of the City Treasurer and
the eligible depository, as their
respective rights to and interest in
such securities under this section
may appear and be asserted by written notice to or demand upon the
trustee pursuant to division (D) of
RC 135.18. In such case, the City
Treasurer shall accept the written
receipt of the trustee describing the
securities which have been deposited with the trustee by the eligible
depository, a copy of which shall
also be delivered to the eligible
depository. Thereupon all such securities so deposited with the trustee
are, pursuant to division (D) of RC
135.18 deemed to be pledged with
the City Treasurer and to be deposited with him or her, for all the purposes of this section. The qualified
trustee designated to perform the
duties pursuant to this division (e)
must be approved by the Director of
Finance prior to designation by the
eligible depository.
(f) The City Treasurer may make
provisions for the exchange and
release of securities and the substitution of other eligible securities
therefor.
(g) Pursuant to division (I) of RC
135.18, any federal reserve bank or

27
branch thereof located in the State
of Ohio, without compliance with RC
sections 1109.03, 1109.04, 1109.17 and
1109.18 or any provision of this chapter and without becoming subject to
RC 1109.15 or any other law of Ohio
relative to the exercise by corporations of trust powers generally, is
qualified to act as trustee for the
safekeeping of securities under this
section.
(h) Notwithstanding the fact that
an eligible depository is required to
pledge eligible securities in certain
amounts to secure deposits of public monies, a trustee shall have no
duty or obligation to determine the
eligibility, market value, or face
value of any securities deposited
with the trustee by an eligible
depository. This applies in all situations including, without limitation,
a substitution or exchange of securities.
(i) Any charges or compensation
of a designated trustee for acting as
such under this section shall be paid
by the eligible depository and in no
event shall be chargeable to the
City or to the City Treasurer or to
any officer of the City. Pursuant to
RC 135.18, such charges or compensation shall not be a lien or charge
upon the securities deposited for
safekeeping prior or superior to the
rights to and interests in such securities of the City or of the City Treasurer. Pursuant to RC 135.18, the
City Treasurer and the City Treasurer’s bondsmen or surety shall be
relieved from any liability to the
City or to the eligible depository for
the loss or destruction of any securities deposited with a qualified
trustee pursuant to this section.
Section 2. That existing Section
178.10 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 2353-93, passed
February 14, 1994, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

Ord. No. 7-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 39 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended by
various ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 39 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended by Ordinance No. 638-15,
passed June 8, 2015, Ordinance No. 1110-15, passed September 21, 2015, Ordinance No. 1260-16, passed October 31,
2016, and Ordinance No. 1076-17, passed October 9, 2017, is amended to read as follows:
Section 39. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Administrative Manager ...........................................................
AMR Field Engineer .................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Water........................................
Assistant Secretary of Sinking Fund Commission ........
Aviation Unit Manager .............................................................

127

Minimum
$27,193.55
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
88,000.00

Maximum
$115,424.36
94,320.17
134,991.09
108,011.58
108,000.00

The City Record

28
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

Chief of Health Planning and Evaluation .......................
Chief-Systems Analysis .............................................................
Consulting Engineer ..................................................................
Disease Intervention Specialist Supervisor.......................
Emergency Management Planner.........................................
Emergency Operations Center Manager ............................
FMIS Functional Manager ......................................................
Harbor Manager ..........................................................................
Health Services Administrator...............................................
Helicopter Pilot ...........................................................................
Labor Relations Officer............................................................
Manager of Compensation and Classifications ...............
Manager of Education and Research .................................
Manager of Employee Relations ..........................................
Manager of Equal Employment Opportunity...................
Manager of Public Safety Office of Quality Control ...
Minority Business Development Administrator ...............
Office of Professional Standards Senior Investigator ..
Police Inspector General..........................................................
Project Coordinator ....................................................................
Risk Manager ...............................................................................
Senior Compensation Analyst/HRIS ....................................
Superintendent of Electric Trouble Operations ..............
Testing, Training and Exercises Planner ........................
Water Business Plan Manager..............................................

January 31, 2018
27,325.56
27,325.56
36,000.00
47,396.28
36,000.00
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
60,000.00
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
28,000.00
75,000.00
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56
27,325.56

85,577.88
108,011.58
104,888.34
73,079.27
90,000.00
96,463.81
99,702.63
108,011.58
85,577.88
72,800.00
85,577.88
128,618.41
96,798.67
99,702.63
99,702.63
96,463.81
85,577.88
85,000.00
100,000.00
99,702.63
108,011.58
104,856.16
85,577.88
91,104.71
99,702.63

Section 2. That existing Section 39 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended by Ordinance No.
638-15, passed June 8, 2015, Ordinance No. 1110-15, passed September 21, 2015, Ordinance No. 1260-16, passed October 31, 2016, and Ordinance No. 1076-17, passed October 9, 2017, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

Ord. No. 9-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Utility Workers
Union of America, Local 270; and to amend Section 12 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to
compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Utility Workers Union of America, Local 270, under the terms contained
in File No. 9-18-A, for the period from April 1, 2016 through March 31, 2019, and which provides, among other
things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase
0%
2%
2%

Approximate Date of Increase
April 1, 2016
April 1, 2017
April 1, 2018

In addition to the percentage increase effective April 1, 2017, each eligible member of the bargaining agreement will receive a separate payment in the amount of $500.00 payable within a reasonable time following ratification, which is not part of the member’s wage base.
Section 2. That Section 12 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, is amended to read as follows:
Section 12. Cleveland Utility Workers Union of America, Local 270. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after
each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Building Stationary Engineer ................................................
Chief Building Stationary Engineer....................................
Chief Stationary Engineer ......................................................
Stationary Boiler Room Operator .........................................
Water Plant Operator I............................................................
Water Plant Operator II ..........................................................
Water Plant Operator................................................................

Minimum
$20.05
21.43
22.76
20.80
20.09
20.09
20.49

Maximum
$20.45
21.86
23.22
21.22
28.09
28.09
29.34

Section 3. That existing Section 12 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately

128

The City Record

January 31, 2018

29

upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

Ord. No. 10-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Treasurers and Ticket Sellers Union, Local 756; and to amend Section 46 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the Treasurers and Ticket Sellers Union, Local 756, under the terms contained in File
No. 10-18-A, for the period from April 1, 2016 through March 31, 2019, and which provides, among other things, for
an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase
0%
2%
2%

Approximate Date of Increase
April 1, 2016
April 1, 2017
April 1, 2018

Section 2. That Section 46 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, is amended to read as follows:
Section 46. Treasurers and Ticket Sellers Union, Local 756. That salaries and compensation in the following
classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each
classification:

1.
2.

Assistant Manager of Box Office.........................................
Box Office Cashier .....................................................................

Minimum
$23,800.06
10.33

Maximum
$56,659.45
18.68

Section 3. That existing Section 46 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

Ord. No. 11-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Longshoreman Association,
Local 1317; and to amend Section 19 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to compensation for
various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the Longshoreman Association, Local 1317, under the terms contained in File No. 1118-A, for the period from April 1, 2016 through March 31, 2019, and which provides, among other things, for an
increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase
0%
2%
2%

Approximate Date of Increase
April 1, 2016
April 1, 2017
April 1, 2018

In addition to the percentage increase effective April 1, 2017, each eligible member of the bargaining agreement will receive a separate payment in the amount of $500.00 payable within a reasonable time following ratification, which is not part of the member’s wage base.
Section 2. That Section 19 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, is amended to read as follows:
Section 19. Longshoreman Association, Local 1317. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:
Minimum
Maximum
1.
Electric Bridge Operator..........................................................
$18.80
19.18
2.
Electric Bridge Operator Leader ..........................................
20.13
20.53
Section 3. That existing Section 19 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

129

The City Record

30
Ord. No. 23-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
employ one or more software developers or vendors to develop and/or
acquire software solutions necessary to provide Audit Management
Software as a Service, or audit management software including implementation and configuration, end
user and technical staff training,
maintenance and other support-related services, for the Department of
Finance, for a period of one year
with two one year options to renew,
exercisable
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
software developers or vendors or
one or more firms of software developers or vendors for the purpose of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to develop and/or acquire software solutions necessary to provide
Audit Management Software as a
Service (SaaS), or audit management software including implementation and configuration, end user
and technical staff training, maintenance and other support-related
services, for the Department of
Finance, for a period of one year
with two one year options to renew,
exercisable
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The SaaS contract or contracts will also include the City’s
obligation to pay ongoing subscription and service fees for the term of
the Agreement.
The selection of the developers or
vendors for the services shall be made
by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Finance
from a list of qualified developers or
vendors available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Finance for the purpose of compiling
a list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or
contracts authorized shall be prepared

by the Director of Law, approved and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
any
third-party
software
license
agreements necessary to effect the
purposes of this ordinance.
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Finance
may sign all documents that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That the cost of this
ordinance shall be paid from Fund
No. 01-1506-6415 funds approved by
the Director of Finance and the
costs of ongoing subscription and
service fees are subject to annual
appropriation. RQS 1506, RL 2018-9
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

Ord. No. 86-18.
By Council Members McCormack
and Santana.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 45717 passed April 24, 2017 as amended
by 963-17 passed August 16, 2017 as
it pertains to authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre
for the Station Hope Storytelling
Project through the use of Wards 3
and 14 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 Ordinance No. 457-17 passed April 24,
2017 as amended by Ordinance No.

January 31, 2018
963-17 passed August 16, 2017 is
hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective May 1, 2016
with Cleveland Public Theatre for
the Station Hope Storytelling Project for the public purpose of promoting arts education and the history of the underground railroad to
youth residing in the city of Cleveland through the use of Wards 3 and
14 Casino Revenue funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 Ordinance No. 457-17 passed April 24,
2017 as amended by Ordinance No.
963-17 passed August 16, 2017 is
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 22, 2017.
Effective January 25, 2017.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, January 29, 2018
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee:
Present:
Griffin,
Chair;
McCormack, Vice Chair; Conwell,
Hairston, Santana, Zone. Authorized
Absence: B. Jones.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Zone, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli, Conwell, Griffin, Keane,
Authorized
Absence:
McCormack.
Cleveland.
Wednesday, January 31, 2018
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee: Present: Zone,
Chair; Polensek, Vice Chair; Griffin,
Kazy, B. Jones, J. Jones, Santana.
Thursday, February 1, 2018
10:00 a.m.
Transportation
celled.

Committee:

Can-

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 457-17 passed April 24, 2017 as amended by 963-17 passed
August 16, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of the Department of Community
Development to enter into agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre for the Station Hope
Storytelling Project through the use of Wards 3 and 14 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 86-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into an
agreement with Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc. for the Holiday Food Gift Card
Program through the use of Ward 5 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 117-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Broadview Road, 2011 (Ward 13) — Ashok Kumar & Seema Rani, owner — appeal resolved on
1/24/18 (Doc. A-227-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122

130

January 31, 2018

The City Record

Carnegie Avenue, 3750 (Ward 5) — Terry Poltorek/3750 Company, Inc./HP Manufacturing Co.,
Inc., owner — appeal resolved on 1/24/18 (Doc. A-118-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 2861 (Ward 3) — Project 29 Partners, LLC, owner — appeal resolved
on 1/24/18 (Doc. A-12-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 1960-A (Ward 6) — 1960-A, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-226-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 1960-B (Ward 6) — 1960-B, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-223-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 1960-C (Ward 6) — 1960-C, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-224-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 1960-D (Ward 6) — 1960-D, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-225-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 84th Street, 1411 (Ward 7) — Ronald Gray, owner — appeal adopted on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-218-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engle Avenue, 5964 (Ward 5) — Scott Sigart, owner — appeal amended and adopted on
1/24/18 (Doc. A-216-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 7715 (Ward 15) — Capital Properties LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
1/24/18 (Doc. A-217-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grovewood Avenue, 16724 (Ward 8) — Antonio Spencer, owner — appeal resolved on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-208-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Huntmere Avenue, 15421 (Ward 8) — Paul B. Garrison II, owner — appeal adopted on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-220-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Joan Avenue, 10315 (Ward 11) — Frank A. Haugh, owner — appeal adopted on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-212-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kimmel Road, 3480 (Ward 12) — Harry Wilson Jr., owner — appeal resolved on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-205-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road, 8005 (Ward 5) — Erick Rodriguez (Burten Bell Carter Development, Inc.),
owner — appeal adopted on 1/24/18 (Doc. A-231-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lasalle Road, 18304 (Ward 8) — Vivian N. Amujiogu, owner — appeal resolved on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-233-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roehl Avenue, 3325 (Ward 14) — Jorge Garcia Sr., owner — appeal resolved on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-211-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Avenue, 2140 (Ward 3) — Scranton-Averell, Inc., owner — appeal withdrawn
on 1/24/18 (Doc. A-221-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 614 (Ward 3) — Rockefeller Building Associates, owner — appeal adopted
on 1/24/18 (Doc. A-215-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 104th Street, 2148 (Ward 15) — NexFinder LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-222-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 105th Street, 2138 (Ward 15) — David Lunt, owner — appeal resolved on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-228-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 13th Street, 4894 (Ward 13) — James Grunt, owner — appeal resolved on 1/24/18
(Doc. A-230-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2389 (Ward 3) — JSAW3LTD, owner — appeal resolved on 1/24/18 (Doc. A-232-17)
West 68th Street, 3123 (Ward 3) — State of Ohio c/o Linda Bell & Robert Perry, owner —
appeal resolved on 1/24/18 (Doc. A-204-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 1280 (Ward 3) — W. 6th St. Partners, owner — appeal postponed to 2/7/18
on 1/24/18 (Doc. A-135-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

31
. . . . . . . . . . . . 122
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 122
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 122
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 122
. . . . . . . . . . . . 122
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 122
. . . . . . . . . . . . 122
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123
. . . . . . . . . . . . 122
. . . . . . . . . . . . 123

Board of Control — Airports Division
Parking fees for aircraft — rescind BOC Res. 311-16 — per C.O. Sec. 571.85 — Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 19-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Decorative and Special Lighting on Bridges repair and maintenance (re-bid) —
per Ord. 1277-16 to RGT Services, LLC dba The Fowler Company — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 17-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Sagamore Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 118-09-097 — Jeannie Thomas (BOC Res. 21-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119

Board of Control — Finance Department
Lumber materials, equipment and supplies — per Ord. 108-17 to Binkowsky-Dougherty
Distribution (BOC Res. 12-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Sagamore Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 118-09-097 — Jeannie Thomas (BOC Res. 21-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 7)
Sagamore Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 118-09-097 — Jeannie Thomas (BOC Res. 21-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119

131

The City Record

32

January 31, 2018

Board of Control — Law Department
General Engineering Services X — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to CDM Smith Inc. — Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 13-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
General Engineering Services X — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to DLZ Ohio, Inc. — Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 14-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Antifreeze/Coolant — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Northeast Lubricants, LTD — Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 20-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Parking fees for aircraft — rescind BOC Res. 311-16 — per C.O. Sec. 571.85 — Division of
Airports (BOC Res. 19-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
General Engineering Services X — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to CDM Smith Inc. — Division of
Water, Depts. of Law, Public Utilities (BOC Res. 13-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
General Engineering Services X — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to DLZ Ohio, Inc. — Division of
Water, Depts. of Law, Public Utilities (BOC Res. 14-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Morgan Improvements-A — per Ord. 1406-15 to Nerone and Sons, Inc. — Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 18-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Decorative and Special Lighting on Bridges repair and maintenance (re-bid) —
per Ord. 1277-16 to RGT Services, LLC dba The Fowler Company — Division of Cleveland
Public Power (BOC Res. 17-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Engineering Services X — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to CDM Smith Inc. — Division of
Water, Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 13-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Engineering Services X — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to DLZ Ohio, Inc. — Division of
Water, Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 14-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems — approve subcontractor —
Contract #RC2015*23 per Ord. 1340-13 (BOC Res. 16-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Improvements-A — per Ord. 1406-15 to Nerone and Sons, Inc. — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 18-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Powdered Activated Carbon — amend BOC Res. 1-18 — substitute “601-17” for “597-17” and
substitute “liquid alum coagulant, item 1” for “powdered activated carbon, all
items” — Division of Water (BOC Res. 15-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Antifreeze/Coolant — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Northeast Lubricants, LTD — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 20-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Antifreeze/Coolant — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Northeast Lubricants, LTD — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 20-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Decorative and Special Lighting on Bridges repair and maintenance (re-bid) —
per Ord. 1277-16 to RGT Services, LLC dba The Fowler Company — Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 17-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems — approve subcontractor —
Contract #RC2015*23 per Ord. 1340-13 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 16-18) . . . . . . .
Lumber materials, equipment and supplies — per Ord. 108-17 to Binkowsky-Dougherty
Distribution — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 12-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Powdered Activated Carbon — amend BOC Res. 1-18 — substitute “601-17” for “597-17” and
substitute “liquid alum coagulant, item 1” for “powdered activated carbon, all
items” — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 15-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117

Board of Control — Water Division
General Engineering Services X — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to CDM Smith Inc. — Depts. of Law,
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 13-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Engineering Services X — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to DLZ Ohio, Inc. — Depts. of Law,
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 14-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Improvements-A — per Ord. 1406-15 to Nerone and Sons, Inc. — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 18-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Powdered Activated Carbon — amend BOC Res. 1-18 — substitute “601-17” for “597-17” and
substitute “liquid alum coagulant, item 1” for “powdered activated carbon, all
items” — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 15-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

132

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117

January 31, 2018

The City Record

33

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Ashland Road, 2285 (Ward 5) — Saady A. Hashem, owner — appeal withdrawn on 1/29/18
(Cal. 17-325) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Avenue, 5437 (Ward 5) — 4Ever Social Club, LLC, owner — appeal postponed
to 3/26/18 on 1/29/18 (Cal. 17-324) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bushnell Court, 6808 (Ward 5) — DP Towing & Auto Salvage LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 1/29/18 (Cal. 17-376) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue, 8606 (Ward 14) — WHS Realty, owner — appeal heard on 1/29/18 (Cal. 17-247)
East 126th Street, 1977 (Ward 6) — WXZ Development Incorp., owner — appeal heard
on 1/29/18 (Cal. 17-377) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 126th Street, 1979 (Ward 6) — WXZ Incorp., owner — appeal heard on
1/29/18 (Cal. 17-378). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 126th Street, 1981 (Ward 6) — WXZ Incorp., owner — appeal heard on
1/29/18 (Cal. 17-379). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 16900 (Ward 17) — Kamcor Realty, owner, and Brittany Bosch, prospective
tenant — appeal postponed to 3/5/18 on 1/29/18 (Cal. 17-374) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 3951 (Ward 17) — Reach Counseling Services, owner — appeal heard on
1/29/18 (Cal. 17-343). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sumner Avenue, 1260/1212 (Ward 5) — 1235 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland LLC, owner — appeal
postponed to 2/26/18 on 1/29/18 (Cal. 17-347) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Road, 15619 (Ward 8) — Spacepop LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/29/18 (Cal. 17-351) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 103rd Street, 1314 (Ward 15) — Zach Miklowski, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/29/18 (Cal. 17-373) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th Street, 2144 (Ward 3) — Matthias and Monika Bonath, owners — appeal granted
and adopted on 1/29/18 (Cal. 17-370). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 44th Street, 1976 (Ward 3) — Sean Rooney, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/29/18 (Cal. 17-368) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Broadview Road, 2011 (Ward 13) — Ashok Kumar, owner — appeal to be heard on 2/12/18
(Cal. 18-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue, 8700 (Ward 14) — -Mihai Dobre, owner — appeal to be heard on 2/12/18
(Cal. 18-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 101st Street, 1852-56 (Ward 7) — Cleveland Construction Inc. — appeal to be heard
on 2/12/18 (Cal. 18-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 66th Street, 4093 (Ward 12) — Maria Chelbezan, owner — appeal to be heard on
2/12/18 (Cal. 18-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 5805-5813 (Ward 7) — Sterling Pettway, owner — appeal to be heard on
2/12/18 (Cal. 18-33). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 4427 (Ward 17) — St. Patrick R.C. Church, owner, and John
T. Foundation, tenant — appeal to be heard on 2/12/18 (Cal. 18-4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120

Building and Housing Department
Authorizing the Director of Building and Housing to apply for and accept a grant from
Environmental Health Watch for the Build Health Challenge 2.0 Program; and
authorizing the Director of Building and Housing and/or Public Health to enter into
one or more contracts and memoranda of understanding needed to implement the
grant. (O 124-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113

Casino Revenue Funds
Amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 457-17 passed April 24, 2017 as amended by 963-17 passed
August 16, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of the Department of Community
Development to enter into agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre for the Station Hope
Storytelling Project through the use of Wards 3 and 14 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 86-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into an
agreement with Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc. for the Holiday Food Gift Card
Program through the use of Ward 5 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 117-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113

City Council
From Council President Kevin J. Kelley appointing, without objection of Cleveland City
Council, Deputy Clerk Allan Dreyer as Clerk Pro Tempore from January 29, 2018, to
January 30, 2018. (F 138-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

City of Cleveland Bids
A-Water Main Renewal 2018 — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord.
698-16 — bid due February 28, 2018 (advertised 1/31/2018 and 2/7/2018) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
B-Water Main Renewal 2018 — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord.
698-16 — bid due March 1, 2018 (advertised 1/31/2018 and 2/7/2018) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124

133

The City Record

34

January 31, 2018

Camp Forbes Recreation Center Multi-Purpose Room (Re-bid) — Office of Capital Projects —
Division of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 1395-16 — bid due
February 21, 2018 (advertised 1/31/2018 and 2/7/2018) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
First Energy Stadium 2018 General Improvements — Office of Capital Projects — Division
of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 805-16 — bid due February 15, 2018
(advertised 1/24/2018 and 1/31/2018). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Music Hall Improvements Roof Repairs — Office of Capital Projects — Division
of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 733-14 — bid due February 15, 2018
(advertised 1/24/2018 and 1/31/2018). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Room 518 Renovations — Office of Capital Projects — Division of Architecture
and Site Improvement — per Ord. 550-17 — bid due February 14, 2018 (advertised 1/24/2018
and 1/31/2018). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water Main Maintenance and Insulation Replacement on Bridge Crossings — Department
of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 698-16 — bid due March 2, 2018
(advertised 1/31/2018 and 2/7/2018). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125

City Planning Commission
Changing the Use, Area and Height District of parcels along the southerly side of Lorain Ave
between West 138th Street and West 139th Street, including two parcels west of West
139th Street as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2576). (O 1361-17) . . . . . . .
Designating Apostolic Faith Tabernacle Church (Knesseth Israel Synagogue) as a Cleveland
Landmark. (O 1451-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Designating Greater Abyssinia Baptist Church as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 1456-17) . . . . . . . .
Designating the Astrup Awning Company Complex as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 119-18) . . . . .
Designating the Kausek Brothers Building as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 1458-17) . . . . . . . . . . .
Designating the Patterson Sargent Company Canned Paint Warehouse as a Cleveland
Landmark. (O 118-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.116
.116
.104
.116

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

Clerk of Council
From Council President Kevin J. Kelley appointing, without objection of Cleveland City
Council, Deputy Clerk Allan Dreyer as Clerk Pro Tempore from January 29, 2018, to
January 30, 2018. (F 138-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Cleveland Municipal Court
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to enter into
one or more contracts with Court Community Service to arrangement placement and
supervision of persons to community service assignments and to the Cleveland work
Crew Program, both as referred by the Court, for the Cleveland Municipal Court, each for
a period of one year. (O 121-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112

Cleveland Public Theater
Amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 457-17 passed April 24, 2017 as amended by 963-17 passed
August 16, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of the Department of Community
Development to enter into agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre for the Station Hope
Storytelling Project through the use of Wards 3 and 14 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 86-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130

Codified Ordinances
To amend Section 135.52 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1649-92, passed October 5, 1992, relating to the rental of site and purchase
of refreshments and mementos for Safety Programs. (O 122-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112
To amend Section 178.10 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2353-93, passed February 14, 1994, relating to security for repayment of
deposits. (O 6-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126
To supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting new Sections
192.57 to 192.72, relating to the collection and administration of net profit taxes. (O 120-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .105

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Utility Workers Union of
America, Local 270; and to amend Section 12 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015,
relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 9-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .128
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Longshoreman Association, Local
1317; and to amend Section 19 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to
compensation for various classifications. (O 11-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .129
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Treasurers and Ticket Sellers Union,
Local 756; and to amend Section 46 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating
to compensation for various classifications. (O 10-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .129

Communications
From Council President Kevin J. Kelley appointing, without objection of Cleveland City
Council, Deputy Clerk Allan Dreyer as Clerk Pro Tempore from January 29, 2018, to
January 30, 2018. (F 138-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

134

The City Record

January 31, 2018

35

From Kevin P. Hudson, Project Manager, Levin Group, Inc. Notice of intent to apply to Ohio
Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs for the development known
as Kenmore Gardens and Kenmore Village, on scattered sites in Cleveland, Ohio,
including 1634-1636 East 93rd Street, 1784 East 93rd Street, 1795-1801 East 93rd Street,
1854-1856 East 96rd Street, 1298-1406 Ansel Road, 1658-1660 Crawford Avenue, 8512-8515
Decker Avenue, 9500-9508 Edmunds Avenue, 8711-8713 Harkness Avenue, 9407-9419
Lamont Avenue, 9215-9221 Rosalind Avenue, 8704-8712 Superior Avenue, 8801-8811 Wade
Park Avenue, 8901-8919 Wade Park Avenue, 9101-9123 Wade Park Avenue. (F 111-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
From Khrys Shefton, Director of Real Estate Development, Famicos Foundation. Notice of
intent to apply to Ohio Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs for
the development known as Circle North Lease Purchase Homes, on scattered sites in
Cleveland, Ohio, including 1389 East 109th Street, 1373 East 110th Street, 1399 East
110th Street, 1367 East 111th Street, 1375 East 111th Street, 1388 East 111th Street, 1392
East 111th Street, 1415 East 111th Street (two parcels), 1457 East 112th Street, 10925
Churchill Avenue, 10930 Churchill Avenue, 10602 Lee Avenue, 10706 Lee Avenue, 10807
Orville Avenue. (F 137-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Community Development
Amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 457-17 passed April 24, 2017 as amended by 963-17 passed
August 16, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of the Department of Community
Development to enter into agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre for the Station Hope
Storytelling Project through the use of Wards 3 and 14 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 86-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into an
agreement with Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc. for the Holiday Food Gift Card
Program through the use of Ward 5 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 117-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113
Oath of Office for Louise Jackson, Interim Director of Community Development. Received.
(F 136-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Condolences
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence

Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution

for
for
for
for

Emmanuel Jackson “Boulou” Gohlstin. (R
Glenda Stevenson. (R 145-18) . . . . . . . . . . . .
James F. Goggin. (R 141-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mary Ann Daum. (R 146-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

140-18)
.......
.......
.......

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.104
.104
.104
.104

Congratulations
Congratulations Resolution for Associate Pastor Lowell Sawyer. (R 144-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
Congratulations Resolution for Deacon Michael Poindexter. (R 143-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
Congratulations Resolution for Father Eric Orzech “Good Joe Award”. (R 142-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

Contracts
Authorizing the Director of Building and Housing to apply for and accept a grant from
Environmental Health Watch for the Build Health Challenge 2.0 Program; and
authorizing the Director of Building and Housing and/or Public Health to enter into one
or more contracts and memoranda of understanding needed to implement the grant.
(O 124-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance to employ one or more software developers or vendors to
develop and/or acquire software solutions necessary to provide Audit Management
Software as a Service, or audit management software including implementation and
configuration, end user and technical staff training, maintenance and other support
related services, for the Department of Finance, for a period of one year with two one
year options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance. (O 23-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. CT 9998
PS 2016 296 with JIJ Communications LLC to provide professional services necessary for
the development, support, and management of communication and media strategies, and
related services. (O 81-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to enter into
one or more contracts with Court Community Service to arrangement placement and
supervision of persons to community service assignments and to the Cleveland work
Crew Program, both as referred by the Court, for the Cleveland Municipal Court, each
for a period of one year. (O 121-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112

Cuyahoga County
Approving the adoption of the Countywide All Hazards Mitigation Plan for Cuyahoga County,
2017 Update. (R 24-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .125

Famicos Foundation
From Khrys Shefton, Director of Real Estate Development, Famicos Foundation. Notice of
intent to apply to Ohio Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs for
the development known as Circle North Lease Purchase Homes, on scattered sites in
Cleveland, Ohio, including 1389 East 109th Street, 1373 East 110th Street, 1399 East 110th

135

The City Record

36

January 31, 2018

Street, 1367 East 111th Street, 1375 East 111th Street, 1388 East 111th Street, 1392 East
111th Street, 1415 East 111th Street (two parcels), 1457 East 112th Street, 10925 Churchill
Avenue, 10930 Churchill Avenue, 10602 Lee Avenue, 10706 Lee Avenue, 10807 Orville
Avenue. (F 137-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Finance Department
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Utility Workers Union of
America, Local 270; and to amend Section 12 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015,
relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 9-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Longshoreman Association, Local
1317; and to amend Section 19 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to
compensation for various classifications. (O 11-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Treasurers and Ticket Sellers Union,
Local 756; and to amend Section 46 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating
to compensation for various classifications. (O 10-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approving the Tax Incentive Review Council’s Year 2016 recommendations. (O 1432-17) . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance to employ one or more software developers or vendors to
develop and/or acquire software solutions necessary to provide Audit Management
Software as a Service, or audit management software including implementation and
configuration, end user and technical staff training, maintenance and other support
related services, for the Department of Finance, for a period of one year with two one
year options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance. (O 23-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. CT 9998
PS 2016 296 with JIJ Communications LLC to provide professional services necessary for
the development, support, and management of communication and media strategies, and
related services. (O 81-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to enter into
one or more contracts with Court Community Service to arrangement placement and
supervision of persons to community service assignments and to the Cleveland work Crew
Program, both as referred by the Court, for the Cleveland Municipal Court, each for a
period of one year. (O 121-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Section 39 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended by various
ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 7-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Section 178.10 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2353-93, passed February 14, 1994, relating to security for repayment of
deposits. (O 6-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting new Sections
192.57 to 192.72, relating to the collection and administration of net profit taxes. (O 120-18)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .128

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .129

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .129
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .127

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .105

Grants
Authorizing the Director of Building and Housing to apply for and accept a grant from
Environmental Health Watch for the Build Health Challenge 2.0 Program; and
authorizing the Director of Building and Housing and/or Public Health to enter into one
or more contracts and memoranda of understanding needed to implement the grant.
(O 124-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113
To amend the title and Section 6 of Ordinance No. 543-16, passed June 6, 2016, relating to
applying for and accepting a grant from Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration, Center for Mental Health Services and Center for Substance Abuse
Treatment for the Cooperative Agreements to Benefit Homeless Individuals Program.
(O 123-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113

Health Department
Authorizing the Director of Building and Housing to apply for and accept a grant from
Environmental Health Watch for the Build Health Challenge 2.0 Program; and
authorizing the Director of Building and Housing and/or Public Health to enter into one
or more contracts and memoranda of understanding needed to implement the grant.
(O 124-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113
To amend the title and Section 6 of Ordinance No. 543-16, passed June 6, 2016, relating to
applying for and accepting a grant from Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration, Center for Mental Health Services and Center for Substance Abuse
Treatment for the Cooperative Agreements to Benefit Homeless Individuals Program.
(O 123-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113

Holiday Food Gift Card Program
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into an
agreement with Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc. for the Holiday Food Gift Card
Program through the use of Ward 5 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 117-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113

Human Resources Department
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Utility Workers Union of
America, Local 270; and to amend Section 12 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015,
relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 9-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .128

136

January 31, 2018

The City Record

37

Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Longshoreman Association, Local
1317; and to amend Section 19 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to
compensation for various classifications. (O 11-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .129
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Treasurers and Ticket Sellers Union,
Local 756; and to amend Section 46 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating
to compensation for various classifications. (O 10-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .129
To amend Section 39 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended by various
ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 7-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .127

Landmark Commission
Designating Apostolic Faith Tabernacle Church (Knesseth Israel Synagogue) as a Cleveland
Landmark. (O 1451-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Designating Greater Abyssinia Baptist Church as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 1456-17) . . . . . . . .
Designating the Astrup Awning Company Complex as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 119-18) . . . . .
Designating the Kausek Brothers Building as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 1458-17) . . . . . . . . . . .
Designating the Patterson Sargent Company Canned Paint Warehouse as a Cleveland
Landmark. (O 118-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.116
.116
.104
.116

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

Levin Group, Inc.
From Kevin P. Hudson, Project Manager, Levin Group, Inc. Notice of intent to apply to Ohio
Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs for the development known
as Kenmore Gardens and Kenmore Village, on scattered sites in Cleveland, Ohio,
including 1634-1636 East 93rd Street, 1784 East 93rd Street, 1795-1801 East 93rd Street,
1854-1856 East 96rd Street, 1298-1406 Ansel Road, 1658-1660 Crawford Avenue, 8512-8515
Decker Avenue, 9500-9508 Edmunds Avenue, 8711-8713 Harkness Avenue, 9407-9419
Lamont Avenue, 9215-9221 Rosalind Avenue, 8704-8712 Superior Avenue, 8801-8811 Wade
Park Avenue, 8901-8919 Wade Park Avenue, 9101-9123 Wade Park Avenue. (F 111-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Liquor Permits
#1327823. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2. Norma L. Castro, 2886 West 25th St.
(Ward 14). (F 115-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#14374151015. New License Application, D5. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, 16729
Lorain Ave. (Ward 17). (F 114-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#14374151125. New License Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, Northeast
Corner of Clifton Blvd. and West 117th St. (Ward 15). (F 112-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#1897646. Stock Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6. Daileys, Inc., 14222 Lorain Ave. (Ward 16).
(F 113-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#4153130. Transfer of Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3 D3A D6. Il Venetian LLC, 127
Public Sq. (Ward 3). (F 116-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#8922479. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5. Throwbacks Lorain LLC, 16612 Lorain Ave.
(Ward 17). (F 139-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 11491 Buckeye Road. (R 101-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the transfer of stock of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to 14222 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor and basement. (R 125-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 11511 Kinsman Road and repealing
Resolution No. 1183-17, objecting to said permit. (R 133-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 14035 Puritas Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 51-18, objecting to said permit. (R 134-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 16122 Lake Shore Boulevard and
repealing Resolution No. 1050-17, objecting to said permit. (R 135-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 2152 Brookpark Road and repealing
Resolution No. 1167-17, objecting to said permit. (R 98-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 2704 Clark Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 978-17, objecting to said permit. (R 126-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 3787 Pearl Road and repealing
Resolution No. 1056-17, objecting to said permit. (R 100-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 4576 West 130th Street and repealing
Resolution No. 1062-17, objecting to said permit. (R 127-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 6513 Clark Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 1387-17, objecting to said permit. (R 128-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 7300 St. Clair Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 1285-17, objecting to said permit. (R 129-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 7301 Detroit Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 1061-17, objecting to said permit. (R 130-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 7965 Euclid Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 13-18, objecting to said permit. (R 131-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 8003 Broadway Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 1166-17, objecting to said permit. (R 99-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 9302 Miles Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 972-17, objecting to said permit. (R 132-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

137

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .125
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .125
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115

The City Record

38

January 31, 2018

Oath of Office
Oath of Office for Louise Jackson, Interim Director of Community Development. Received.
(F 136-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Ohio Housing Finance Agency ( OHFA )
From Kevin P. Hudson, Project Manager, Levin Group, Inc. Notice of intent to apply to Ohio
Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs for the development known
as Kenmore Gardens and Kenmore Village, on scattered sites in Cleveland, Ohio,
including 1634-1636 East 93rd Street, 1784 East 93rd Street, 1795-1801 East 93rd Street,
1854-1856 East 96rd Street, 1298-1406 Ansel Road, 1658-1660 Crawford Avenue, 8512-8515
Decker Avenue, 9500-9508 Edmunds Avenue, 8711-8713 Harkness Avenue, 9407-9419
Lamont Avenue, 9215-9221 Rosalind Avenue, 8704-8712 Superior Avenue, 8801-8811 Wade
Park Avenue, 8901-8919 Wade Park Avenue, 9101-9123 Wade Park Avenue. (F 111-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
From Khrys Shefton, Director of Real Estate Development, Famicos Foundation. Notice of
intent to apply to Ohio Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs for
the development known as Circle North Lease Purchase Homes, on scattered sites in
Cleveland, Ohio, including 1389 East 109th Street, 1373 East 110th Street, 1399 East 110th
Street, 1367 East 111th Street, 1375 East 111th Street, 1388 East 111th Street, 1392 East
111th Street, 1415 East 111th Street (two parcels), 1457 East 112th Street, 10925 Churchill
Avenue, 10930 Churchill Avenue, 10602 Lee Avenue, 10706 Lee Avenue, 10807 Orville
Avenue. (F 137-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Professional Services
Authorizing the Director of Finance to employ one or more software developers or vendors to
develop and/or acquire software solutions necessary to provide Audit Management
Software as a Service, or audit management software including implementation and
configuration, end user and technical staff training, maintenance and other support
related services, for the Department of Finance, for a period of one year with two one
year options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance. (O 23-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130
Authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. CT 9998
PS 2016 296 with JIJ Communications LLC to provide professional services necessary for
the development, support, and management of communication and media strategies, and
related services. (O 81-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116

Resolution of Support
Approving the adoption of the Countywide All Hazards Mitigation Plan for Cuyahoga County,
2017 Update. (R 24-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .125

Safety Department
To amend Section 135.52 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1649-92, passed October 5, 1992, relating to the rental of site and purchase
of refreshments and mementos for Safety Programs. (O 122-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112

Salaries
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Utility Workers Union of
America, Local 270; and to amend Section 12 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015,
relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 9-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Longshoreman Association, Local
1317; and to amend Section 19 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to
compensation for various classifications. (O 11-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Treasurers and Ticket Sellers Union,
Local 756; and to amend Section 46 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating
to compensation for various classifications. (O 10-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Section 39 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended by various
ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 7-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .128

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .129

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .129
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .127

Tax Incentive Review Council
Approving the Tax Incentive Review Council’s Year 2016 recommendations. (O 1432-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126

Taxes
Approving the Tax Incentive Review Council’s Year 2016 recommendations. (O 1432-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126
To supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting new Sections
192.57 to 192.72, relating to the collection and administration of net profit taxes. (O 120-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .105

Ward 01
Condolence Resolution for Emmanuel Jackson “Boulou” Gohlstin (R 140-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

138

January 31, 2018

The City Record

39

Ward 02
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 9302 Miles Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 972-17, objecting to said permit. (R 132-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115

Ward 03
#4153130. Transfer of Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3 D3A D6. Il Venetian LLC, 127 Public
Sq. (Ward 3). (F 116-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
Amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 457-17 passed April 24, 2017 as amended by 963-17 passed
August 16, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of the Department of Community
Development to enter into agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre for the Station Hope
Storytelling Project through the use of Wards 3 and 14 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 86-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 6513 Clark Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 1387-17, objecting to said permit. (R 128-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114

Ward 04
Congratulations Resolution for Associate Pastor Lowell Sawyer. (R 144-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for Deacon Michael Poindexter. (R 143-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
From Kevin P. Hudson, Project Manager, Levin Group, Inc. Notice of intent to apply to Ohio
Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs for the development known
as Kenmore Gardens and Kenmore Village, on scattered sites in Cleveland, Ohio,
including 1634-1636 East 93rd Street, 1784 East 93rd Street, 1795-1801 East 93rd Street,
1854-1856 East 96rd Street, 1298-1406 Ansel Road, 1658-1660 Crawford Avenue, 8512-8515
Decker Avenue, 9500-9508 Edmunds Avenue, 8711-8713 Harkness Avenue, 9407-9419 Lamont
Avenue, 9215-9221 Rosalind Avenue, 8704-8712 Superior Avenue, 8801-8811 Wade Park
Avenue, 8901-8919 Wade Park Avenue, 9101-9123 Wade Park Avenue. (F 111-18) . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 11511 Kinsman Road and repealing
Resolution No. 1183-17, objecting to said permit. (R 133-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115

Ward 05
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into an
agreement with Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc. for the Holiday Food Gift Card
Program through the use of Ward 5 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 117-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113

Ward 06
Objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 11491 Buckeye Road. (R 101-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 7965 Euclid Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 13-18, objecting to said permit. (R 131-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115

Ward 07
Designating the Kausek Brothers Building as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 1458-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116
Designating the Patterson Sargent Company Canned Paint Warehouse as a Cleveland
Landmark. (O 118-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
From Kevin P. Hudson, Project Manager, Levin Group, Inc. Notice of intent to apply to Ohio
Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs for the development known
as Kenmore Gardens and Kenmore Village, on scattered sites in Cleveland, Ohio,
including 1634-1636 East 93rd Street, 1784 East 93rd Street, 1795-1801 East 93rd Street,
1854-1856 East 96rd Street, 1298-1406 Ansel Road, 1658-1660 Crawford Avenue, 8512-8515
Decker Avenue, 9500-9508 Edmunds Avenue, 8711-8713 Harkness Avenue, 9407-9419 Lamont
Avenue, 9215-9221 Rosalind Avenue, 8704-8712 Superior Avenue, 8801-8811 Wade Park
Avenue, 8901-8919 Wade Park Avenue, 9101-9123 Wade Park Avenue. (F 111-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Ward 08
Congratulations Resolution for Father Eric Orzech “Good Joe Award”. (R 142-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 16122 Lake Shore Boulevard and
repealing Resolution No. 1050-17, objecting to said permit. (R 135-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116

Ward 09
Condolence Resolution for Glenda Stevenson. (R 145-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Designating Apostolic Faith Tabernacle Church (Knesseth Israel Synagogue) as a Cleveland
Landmark. (O 1451-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Designating Greater Abyssinia Baptist Church as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 1456-17) . . . . . . . . . .
From Khrys Shefton, Director of Real Estate Development, Famicos Foundation. Notice of
intent to apply to Ohio Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs for
the development known as Circle North Lease Purchase Homes, on scattered sites in
Cleveland, Ohio, including 1389 East 109th Street, 1373 East 110th Street, 1399 East 110th
Street, 1367 East 111th Street, 1375 East 111th Street, 1388 East 111th Street, 1392 East 111th
Street, 1415 East 111th Street (two parcels), 1457 East 112th Street, 10925 Churchill Avenue,
10930 Churchill Avenue, 10602 Lee Avenue, 10706 Lee Avenue, 10807 Orville Avenue. (F 137-18)

139

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

The City Record

40

January 31, 2018

Ward 10
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 7300 St. Clair Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 1285-17, objecting to said permit. (R 129-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115

Ward 12
Congratulations Resolution for Father Eric Orzech “Good Joe Award”. (R 142-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 3787 Pearl Road and repealing
Resolution No. 1056-17, objecting to said permit. (R 100-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 8003 Broadway Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 1166-17, objecting to said permit. (R 99-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .125

Ward 13
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 2152 Brookpark Road and repealing
Resolution No. 1167-17, objecting to said permit. (R 98-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .125

Ward 14
#1327823. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2. Norma L. Castro, 2886 West 25th St.
(Ward 14). (F 115-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 457-17 passed April 24, 2017 as amended by 963-17 passed
August 16, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of the Department of Community
Development to enter into agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre for the Station Hope
Storytelling Project through the use of Wards 3 and 14 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 86-18) . .
Designating the Astrup Awning Company Complex as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 119-18) . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 2704 Clark Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 978-17, objecting to said permit. (R 126-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114

Ward 15
#14374151125. New License Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, Northeast
Corner of Clifton Blvd. and West 117th St. (Ward 15). (F 112-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 7301 Detroit Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 1061-17, objecting to said permit. (R 130-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .115

Ward 16
#1897646. Stock Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6. Daileys, Inc., 14222 Lorain Ave. (Ward 16).
(F 113-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Use, Area and Height District of parcels along the southerly side of Lorain Ave
between West 138th Street and West 139th Street, including two parcels west of West
139th Street as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2576). (O 1361-17) . . . . . . .
Condolence Resolution for James F. Goggin (R 141-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the transfer of stock of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to 14222 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor and basement. (R 125-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 14035 Puritas Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 51-18, objecting to said permit. (R 134-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 4576 West 130th Street and repealing
Resolution No. 1062-17, objecting to said permit. (R 127-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114

Ward 17
#14374151015. New License Application, D5. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, 16729
Lorain Ave. (Ward 17). (F 114-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
#8922479. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5. Throwbacks Lorain LLC, 16612 Lorain Ave.
(Ward 17). (F 139-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
Condolence Resolution for Mary Ann Daum. (R 146-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

Zoning
Changing the Use, Area and Height District of parcels along the southerly side of Lorain Ave
between West 138th Street and West 139th Street, including two parcels west of West
139th Street as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2576). (O 1361-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116

140

