The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

October the Tenth, Two Thousand and Eighteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

15

Board of Control

16

Civil Service

20

1 Joseph T. Jones

Board of Zoning Appeals

20

2 Kevin L. Bishop
3 Kerry McCormack

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
21

4 Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr.

Public Notice

23

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

23

6 Blaine A. Griffin

City of Cleveland Bids

23

7 Basheer S. Jones

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

24

Committee Meetings

44

Index

45

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Anthony T. Hairston
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Jasmin Santana
15 Matt Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones...................................................4691 East 177th Street
44128
Kevin L. Bishop...............................................11729 Miles Avenue, #5
44105
Kerry McCormack................................................1769 West 31st Place
44113
Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr. ........................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44115
Blaine A. Griffin.........................................1810 Larchmere Boulevard
44120
Basheer S. Jones...................................................1383 East 94th Street
44106
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Anthony T. Hairston .....................................................423 Arbor Road
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Jasmin Santana......................................................3535 Marvin Avenue
44109
Matt Zone ............................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Sharon Dumas, Interim Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Matt Gray, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Tracy Martin-Thompson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Prevention, Intervention
and Opportunity for Youth and Young Adults
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Carter Edman, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
OFFICE OF QUALITY CONTROL AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT – Sabra
T. Pierce-Scott, Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Ronda G. Curtis, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Kimberly Roy-Wilson,
Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Robert Kennedy, Director, Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport & Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur,
Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Kim Johnson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Merle Gordon, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – David Hearne, Interim Commissioner
Environment – Brian Kimball, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Persis Sosiak, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Interim Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – David Carroll, Interim Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield
Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Angelo Calvillo, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Tania Menesse, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Joy Anderson, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –James Greene, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ayonna Blue Donald, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole West, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – David Ebersole, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Mary McNamara, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Grady Stevenson, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Kevin L. Bishop, Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir
Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea,
Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa Ryan, Council Member Jasmin
Santana, Peter Whitt, Ted Wammes.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Rev. Gregory E. Jordan, President; Michael
Flickinger, Vice-President; Barry A. Withers, Interim Secretary; Members: Daniel J.
Brennan, India Pierce Lee.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Henry Bailey, Myrline Barnes, Kelley Britt, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Public Utilities Director Robert L. Davis; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; David
H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Council Member Kerry McCormack,
Diane Downing, August Fluker, Charles Slife.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – _____________, Chair; Genesis O. Brown, Daniel Conway,
Robert L. Render.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Julie Trott, Chair; Giancarlo
Calicchia, Vice Chair; Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Robert
Strickland, Donald Petit, Secretary, Council Member Basheer S. Jones, Matthew L.
Spronz; Michele Anderson, Stephen Harrison, Raymond Tarasuck, Jr.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Michelle D. Earley
14-C
Judge Pinkey S. Carr
15-C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
13-A
Judge Emanuella Groves
14-B
Judge Lauren C. Moore
15-A
Judge Michael L. Nelson, Sr.
12-A
Judge Ann Clare Oakar
14-A
Judge Ronald J.H. O’Leary (Housing Court Judge)
13-B
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13-D
Judge Suzan M. Sweeney
12-C
Judge Jazmin Torres-Lugo
13-C
Judge Shiela Turner McCall
12-B
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14-D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Timothy
Lubbe – Housing Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda – Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief
Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

Vol. 105

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2018

No. 5470

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:

FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

Mayor’s Appointments Committee:
Kazy (CHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Kelley.

File No. 1234-18.
RE: #8727041. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2 D6. Swami
Bapa 98 LLC, 11022 Clifton Blvd.
(Ward 15). Received.

Operations Committee: McCormack
(CHAIR), Griffin, Keane, Kelley,
Zone.

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2018-2021
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Griffin
(CHAIR),
McCormack
(VICECHAIR), Conwell, B. Jones, Hairston, Santana, Zone.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR), Bishop, Brancatelli, Hairston, J. Jones, Kazy.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley
(CHAIR),
Zone
(VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell,
Griffin,
Keane,
McCormack.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, B.
Jones, Keane, McCormack.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Kazy
(VICECHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, McCormack, Polensek, Santana.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: ________
(CHAIR), Cleveland (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Griffin, B. Jones, J. Jones,
Kazy.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone (CHAIR), Polensek (VICECHAIR), Griffin, Kazy, B. Jones, J.
Jones, Santana.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Keane
(VICE-CHAIR),
Bishop,
Conwell,
Johnson, J. Jones, Santana.

Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Polensek.

Kelley
Hairston,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
October 8, 2018
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:04 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.

Council Members present: Kevin
L. Bishop. Dona Brady, Anthony
Brancatelli, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Blaine A. Griffin,
Anthony T. Hairston, Kenneth L.
Johnson, Basheer S. Jones, Joseph T.
Jones, Brian Kazy, Kevin J. Kelley,
Martin J. Keane, Kerry McCormack,
Michael D. Polensek, Jasmin Santana, Matt Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G.
Jackson,
Interim
Chief
of
Staff/Director Sharon Dumas, Chief
Operating Officer Darnell Brown,
Chief of Government Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Regional
Development Edward W. Rybka,
Chief of Education Monyka S. Price,
Media
Relations
Director
Dan
Williams, Chief of Sustainability
Matt Gray, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, Chief of Prevention, Intervention and Opportunity for Youth and Young Adults
Tracy Martin-Thompson, and Directors Langhenry, Davis, Kennedy,
Spronz, Gordon, McGrath, Menesse,
Blue Donald, West, Ebersole, Stevenson, Collier, Withers, Burrows and
Pierce Scott.
MOTION
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
McCormack, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Bishop.

1679

File No. 1235-18.
RE: #9526244. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. West 25th
Metro Gas, Inc., 3474 West 25th St.
(Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1248-18.
RE: #5930856. Stock Application,
D1 D2 D3 D3A D6. Midwest Entertainment Venture LLC, 1299 West
9th St. (Ward 3). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1244-18 — Raymon Pointer.
Res. No. 1249-18 — Evon (Yvonne)
Marcus.
Res. No. 1250-18 — May Della
Riley.
Res. No. 1255-18 — Timothy A. Ferris.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1251-18 — Vanessa Griffin Campbell.
Res. No. 1252-18 — Reverend Fr.
Hady J. Mahfouz.
Res. No. 1253-18 — Ambassador
Gabriel Issa.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1254-18 — Paul Hanna.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1238-18.
By Council Members Brady, Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to issue a permit to Robert A. Hill
to encroach into the public right-ofway of the 1st un-named alley (10.00
feet wide) west of Bellaire Road
and north of Guardian Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining a
hoop house and urban garden.

4
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
issue a permit, revocable at the will
of Council, to Robert A. Hill, 12207
Brookfield Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio,
44135 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public right-of-way of the 1st unnamed alley (10.00 feet wide) west
of Bellaire Road and north of
Guardian
Avenue
by
installing,
using, and maintaining a hoop
house and urban garden at the following location:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the 1st unnamed alley (10.00 feet wide) West
of Bellaire Road and North of
Guardian Avenue in the Guardian
Subdivision, of part of Original
Rockport Township Section No. 10
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 65 of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga
County
Records,
further
described as follows:
Being the most Northerly 40.00
foot portion of the 1st un-named
alley (10.00 feet wide) West of Bellaire Road and North of Guardian
Avenue.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the Director of Law determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The permit
shall be issued only when, in the
opinion of the Director of Law, the
prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any
loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 3. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of
Capital
Projects.
That
the
encroaching structure(s) permitted
by this ordinance shall conform to
plans
and
specifications
first
approved by the Manager of the
City’s Division of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1239-18.
By Council Members Griffin and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, Health Resources
& Services Administration for the
Healthy Start Initiative: Eliminating Disparities in Perinatal Health
for the Moms First Project; authorizing the purchase or lease of television and radio advertising time
and other media; and to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies entities, and individuals, to
implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $2,000,000
annually for a period of five years,
and any other funds as they may
become available during the grant
term, from the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, Health
Resources & Services Administration for the Healthy Start Initiative:
Eliminating Disparities in Perinatal
Health to conduct the Moms First
Project; that the Director of Public
Health is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the executive summary for
the grant.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, File No. 1239-18A, made a part of this ordinance as
if fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects and shall not be changed
without
additional
legislative
authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, and individuals to implement the project as
described in the file.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the purchase of lease, during the
grant term, of television and radio
advertising time and other media,
for the Department of Public Health
Section 7. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

1680

October 10, 2018
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1240-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Workforce Development to apply for, accept and
expend funds and resources from
the Ohio Department of Job and
Family Services, or other fiscal
agents, for the 2018 Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and
Workforce
Development
Program
grants; to enter into contracts and
memoranda of understanding with
various entities necessary to administer and implement the Workforce
Development programs; to enter into
one or more agreements with Cuyahoga County, or other fiscal agents,
to accept monies for implementation
of the programs; and to sublease
areas at OhioMeansJobs|ClevelandCuyahoga County One-Stop Service
Center, located at 1910 Carnegie
Avenue.
Whereas, the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act of 2014,
Public Law 113-128 (“WIOA”), the
purpose of which is to “. . . provide
workforce
investment
activities,
through statewide and local workforce
investment
systems,
that
increase the employment, retention,
and earnings of participants, and
increase attainment of recognized
postsecondary credentials by participants, and, as a result, improve the
quality of the workforce, reduce
welfare dependency, increase economic self-sufficiency, meet the skill
requirements
of
employers,
and
enhance the productivity and competitiveness of the nation” was
enacted; and
Whereas, the Governor of the
State of Ohio has designated the
geographic boundaries of the City of
Cleveland (“City”) and Cuyahoga
County as a Local Workforce Area
for purposes of administering WIOA
in Northeastern Ohio; and
Whereas,
in
order
to
better
address the needs of the citizens of
the City and the County, maximize
the use of available funds, and comply with federal and state policies,
and generally administer funds and
programs under the Workforce Innovation
and
Opportunity
Act
(“WIOA”),
and
other
Workforce
Development programs, the City and
the County have agreed to continue
to operate consolidated Workforce
programs in accordance with an
Intergovernmental
Agreement
entered into by the Mayor and the
Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners on June 4, 2007 (“IGA”); and
Whereas, in accordance with the
inter-governmental agreement for
the WIOA Program Year (“PY”)
2018 for the period of July 1, 2018
through June 30, 2020, the City will
serve as the administrative entity
and will be reimbursed from grant
funds for all expenses; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; therefore

October 10, 2018
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Workforce Development (the “Director”) is authorized to apply for,
accept
and
expend
grants
and
resources from the Ohio Department
of Job and Family Services, Department of Labor, Cuyahoga County or
other fiscal agents, for the Workforce Development program services
described in Section 2 to eligible
individuals
and
businesses.
The
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grants.
Section 2. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies,
entities or organizations to administer and implement the following
components of the grants:
Youth Activities
• YOUTH REQUIRED PROGRAM
ELEMENTS
• Tutoring, Study Skills and
Instruction
• Alternative Secondary School
Services
• Summer Employment
• Paid Work Experience
• Occupational Skills Training
• Leadership Development
• Supportive Services
• Mentoring
• Follow-up Services
• Comprehensive Guidance and
Counseling
• Financial Literacy
• Entrepreneurial Skills Training
• Help to transition to post-secondary education
• PRE-VOCATIONAL SERVICES
AND ACTIVITIES
• ING
• JOB DEVELOPMENT/JOB
PLACEMENT
• ON-THE-JOB TRAINING
• JOB FAIRS, WIB MEETINGS,
YOUTH COUNCIL, PROVIDER
MEETINGS
• YOUTH COMMITTEE
• YOUTH RESOURCE CENTER
• SUMMER JOB PROGRAMS
• SPECIAL PROJECTS
Adult Activities
• OCCUPATIONAL SKILLS
TRAINING
• ON-THE-JOB TRAINING
• CUSTOMIZED TRAINING
• COHORT TRAINING
• INCUMBENT WORKER
TRAINING
• SPECIALIZED POPULATION
SERVICES
• SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
• JOB READINESS TRAINING
• FOLLOW-UP
• JOB DEVELOPMENT AND
EMPLOYER SERVICES
• JOB FAIRS, WDB MEETINGS,
PROVIDER MEETINGS
• CAREER SERVICES
• INTENSIVE SERVICES
• ENTREPRENUERIAL
ACTIVITIES
• EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYER
RECOGNITION EVENTS
• PRE-VOCATIONAL SERVICES
AND ACTIVITIES
• WDB INITIATIVES AND
SPECIAL PROJECTS
Dislocated Worker Activities
• OCCUPATIONAL SKILLS
TRAINING
• ON-THE-JOB TRAINING

The City Record
• CUSTOMIZED TRAINING
• COHORT TRAINING
• INCUMBENT WORKER
TRAINING
• SPECIALIZED POPULATION
SERVICES
• SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
• JOB READINESS TRAINING
• PRE-VOCATIONAL SERVICES
AND ACTIVITIES
• FOLLOW-UP
• JOB DEVELOPMENT AND
EMPLOYERS SERVICES
• JOB FAIRS, WIB MEETINGS,
PROVIDER MEETINGS
• RAPID RESPONSE
• CAREER SERVICES
• INTENSIVE SERVICES
• ENTREPRENUERIAL
ACTIVITIES
• EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYER
RECOGNITION EVENTS
• WDB INITIATIVES AND
SPECIAL PROJECTS
• SECTOR STRATEGIES AND
CAREER PATHWAYS
Section 3. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
memoranda
of
understanding
(“MOU”) with various entities, agencies, or individuals participating in
the OhioMeansJobs|Cleveland-Cuyahoga County One-Stop Service Center, activities and/or programs relating to cost-sharing contributions, for
the purposes of implementing the
Workforce Development programs
as described in this ordinance. The
Director is further authorized to
enter into various agreements necessary to carry out the purposes of
the MOUs. The Director is authorized to accept monies under the
cost-sharing MOUs, and to deposit
the cost sharing contributions with
the County as the designated fiscal
agent under the IGA.
Section 4. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
agreements with Cuyahoga County
to accept monies from the County to
implement the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and other
Workforce Development programs
as described in this ordinance. Any
funds accepted under this Section
shall be used only for additional services or contracts under this program, and the funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
grants or contracts with various
entities, agencies, or individuals in
order for the City of Cleveland to
provide services under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity
Act, and Workforce Development
programs authorized under this ordinance, and to receive payment for
the services. The Director is authorized to accept monies under these
grants and contracts to deposit the
funds with the County as the designated fiscal agent. Any funds
accepted under this Section shall be
used only for additional services or
contracts under this program, and
the funds are appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 6. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director is authorized
to sublease various areas at the
OhioMeansJobs|Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County
One-Stop
Service
Center,
located at 1910 Carnegie Avenue, to

1681

5
various entities, agencies, or individuals, to provide Workforce Development and Economic Development
services authorized under this ordinance.
Section 7. That the term of the
subleases authorized by this ordinance shall not exceed two years,
subject to annual appropriation and
to the provisions of the City’s lease
agreement.
Section 8. That the subleases may
authorize the various entities, agencies,
or
individuals
to
make
improvements
to
the
subleased
premises subject to the approval of
appropriate City agencies and officials, and to authorize the sublessees to contribute a share of operating costs
Section 9. That the subleases shall
be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 10. That the Director of
Workforce Development, the Director of Law, the Chief of Public
Affairs and other appropriate City
officials are authorized to execute
any other documents and certificates, and take any other actions
which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the subleases authorized by this ordinance.
Section 11. That the Director is
authorized to accept monies under
the subleases authorized above, and
to deposit the rent collected, and
other program income with the
County as the designated fiscal
agent. Any funds accepted under
this Section shall be used only for
additional
services
or
contracts
under this program, and the funds
are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts
with
various
entities,
agencies, or individuals to provide
business
services
and/or
rental
space at 1910 Carnegie Avenue,
Cleveland, OH 44115, and to receive
payment for the services. The Director is authorized to accept monies
for the services, and to deposit the
payments with the County as the
designated fiscal agent. Any funds
accepted under this Section shall be
used only for additional services or
contracts under this program, and
the funds are appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 13. That the cost of any
contract or contracts authorized in
this ordinance shall be paid from
the WIOA and other Workforce
Development
grant
or
contract
funds received.
Section 14. That the following
amounts are estimated costs to be
reimbursed to the City for administration of the Workforce Development programs and activities during
this Program Year:
I. Salaries and payroll
expenses of about $750,000.

related

II. Operational and building related costs (Rent, Utilities, Security,)
at 1910 Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland,
OH. 44115, in an amount not to
exceed $900,000.
III. Other Workforce Development
grants, MOU Agreements, programs
and activities in an amount not to
exceed $200,000
IV. Miscellaneous costs (Indirect
costs, chargebacks, supplies) in an
amount not to exceed $150,000.

6
Section 15. That the Mayor or the
Director are authorized to enter into
such other agreements as may be
necessary to implement the City County Workforce Development programs.
Section 16. That the contracts and
agreements authorized by this ordinance shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 17. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Workforce Development, Finance, Law;
Committee on Finance
Ord. No. 1241-18.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Education
for the 2019 Summer Food Service
Program; authorizing the purchase
by requirement contract of breakfasts and lunches and for food, food
products, beverages, condiments and
paper products to implement the
grant, for the Division of Recreation, Department of Public Works;
and authorizing the Director to contract with various non-profit organizations for the implementation of
the Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $400,000.00,
from the Ohio Department of Education, to conduct the 2019 Summer
Food Service Program for the purposes described in the summary;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the summary for
the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1241-18-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant term of unitized
breakfasts and lunches for the
breakfast and lunch program to be
served at City recreation centers
and at various non-profit agencies
and other agencies or recreation
facilities
as
determined
by
the
Director, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Recreation, Department of

The City Record
Public Works. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control shall
determine.
Section 4. That provided the agencies meet the eligibility requirements of the Ohio Department of
Education, the Director of Public
Works is authorized to make one or
more written contracts with the various
non-profit
organizations
to
implement this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the grant period for the necessary
items of various natural foods, food
products, beverages, condiments and
paper products, to be served as part
of the meal program at Camp
George L. Forbes, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Recreation, Department of Public Works. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control shall determine.
Section 6. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of any purchase under the contract,
each of which purchases shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
delivery order against the contract
or contracts certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Works may sign all documents that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That, notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 181.24 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, bidders for the contract or contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
be required to submit a bid bond in
the amount of five percent of the
amount of the bid, as required by
United States Treasury Circular 570.
Section 9. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees
on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.

1682

October 10, 2018
Ord. No. 1242-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Keane
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of repairing,
maintaining, and installing asphalt
on runways, taxiways, ramps, roadways and other surfaces for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control, and authorizing the
Director of Port Control to enter into
one or more public improvement
requirement contracts for the making of the improvement, for a period of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which
shall require additional legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
repairing,
maintaining,
and
installing asphalt on runways, taxiways, ramps, roadways and other
surfaces for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control, by
one or more public improvement
requirement contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
on a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a period of two years, with two oneyear options to renew, for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the improvement
for a period not to exceed the specified term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the various divisions of the Department of Port Control. The first of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative
authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second
of the one-year options to renew
may be exercised at the option of
the Director of Port Control, without
the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to apply
and pay for permits, licenses, or
other authorizations required by any
regulatory agency or public authority to permit performance of the
work authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
or
other

October 10, 2018
expenditures shall be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify
the amount of any purchase under the
contract, each of which purchases
shall be made on order of the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies by a delivery order issued
against the contract or contracts and
certified by the Director of Finance.
(RQN 3001, RL 2018-41)
Section 5. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Port Control may sign all documents that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Transportation, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1243-18.
By Council Members B. Jones,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment
to Empowerment Zone Loan Agreement No. 58774 with Eliza Bryant
Village to forgive the balance of the
payments.
Whereas,
in
May
2000,
Eliza
Bryant
Village
(“Eliza
Bryant”)
acquired Madonna Hall and expanded their nursing home to accommodate those residents; and
Whereas, as part of that expansion, Eliza Bryant entered into an
Empowerment Zone HUD 108 Loan
with the City in the amount of
$5,000,000; and
Whereas, Eliza Bryant has been
making regular principal and interest payments according to the terms
of the loan; and
Whereas, the loan is structured in
a way that a balloon payment is due
October 1, 2018, in the approximate
amount
of
$1,850,000
and
Eliza
Bryant has requested that the balloon payment be forgiven;
Whereas, considering the balance
between the City’s debt obligations,
Eliza
Bryant’s
current
financial
position and ability to repay, and
the services that they provide to the
City, the City agrees to forgive the
remaining debt on Contract No.
58774; and

7
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. 58774 with Eliza Bryant
Village to forgive the balance of the
payments due under the contract in
the
approximate
amount
of
$1,850,000.
Section 2. That the amendment
shall include other terms and conditions that the Director of Law determines are necessary to protect the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 1247-18.
By Council Member Kelley.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area, and Height Districts of parcels of land south of Pearl Road to Montclair
Avenue and East to Broadview Avenue and adding an Urban Form Overlay along the principal corridors of Pearl
Road, State Road, and Broadview Avenue (MC 2588).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, and the State of Ohio, the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of West 34th Street and the centerline of Hanscom Avenue S.W.;
Thence, southeasterly along the centerline of Hanscom Avenue S.W. to its intersection with the centerline of
West 32nd Street;
Thence, southwesterly along the centerline of West 32nd Street to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the centerline of Altoona (formerly Manchester Road S.W.) Road;
Thence, southeasterly and easterly along said prolongation to its intersection with the northerly prolongation
of the westerly line of Permanent Parcel Number (PPN) 01417039 also known as Sublot No. 18 in the F.W. Sears
Subdivision of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 63 as shown by recorded plat in Volume 16 of Maps, Page
21 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence, southerly along said prolongation to its intersection with the northerly line of the parcel thereof;
Thence, easterly along the northerly line of said parcel continuing along it easterly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Dale and Barbara Bibio on November 9, 1993 and
known as Sublot No. 20 in E.D. Loew’s Subdivision of part of the Original Brooklyn Township lots No. 63 & 64
as shown by recorded plat in Volume 29 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records and parts of lots 25, 26,
& 27 in F.W. Sears Subdivision of part of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 63, as shown by recorded plat
in Volume 16 of Maps, Page 4 in Cuyahoga County Records (PPN 01417029);
Thence, northeasterly along said westerly line and its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Devonshire Road S.W.;
Thence, easterly along the centerline of Devonshire Road to its intersection with the centerline of West 30th
Street (formerly Loewe Street);
Thence, northerly and northeasterly along West 30th Street to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the easterly line of PPN 01419015 also known as Sublot No. 35;
Thence, southeasterly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of said parcel;
Thence, southwesterly along said southerly line its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the northeasterly line of a parcel of land conveyed by Byron and Mherta Newell to Brooklyn Christian Missionary Alliance
as recorded by AFN # 00281679 in the Cuyahoga County Recorder’s Office (PPN 01419053);
Thence, southeasterly along said line and its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of West 28th Street;
Thence, northerly and easterly along said centerline to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of
the northeasterly line of Sublot No. 23 in The Residence Building Company’s Subdivision of the Original Brooklyn Township Volume 69 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records and also known as PPN 01419056;

1683

8

The City Record

October 10, 2018

Thence, southeasterly along said line of said parcel to its intersection with the southerly line of the parcel
thereof;
Thence, southwesterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly corner of Sublot No. 22 in
said Subdivision as shown by recorded plat in Volume 69 o Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records and also
known as PPN 01419057;
Thence, continuing southerly along the southerly prolongation of said southeasterly line to its intersection with
the southwesterly corner of a parcel of land conveyed to Richard Solomon on January 24, 1983 by Barsue Corp
as recorded by AFN 200201290118 and also known as PPN 01419021;
Thence, easterly along the southerly line of the parcel thereof to its intersection with the southwesterly corner of a parcel of land conveyed to James Skufka by Matthew and Sherry Skufka on January 25, 2002 and recorded by Cuyahoga County AFN 00846254 and known as PPN 01419022;
Thence, southwesterly along said line and its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Colburn Avenue;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of Colburn Avenue S.W. to its intersection with the northwesterly
prolongation of the northwesterly line of Sublot No. 40 in Brooklyn Height’s Realty Company’s Subdivision of part
of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 63 as shown by recorded plat in Volume 45 of Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Records and referred to as PPN 01421049;
Thence, southeasterly along said line to its intersection with the northwesterly corner of parcel of land known
as Sublot No. 202 in F.W. Sears Brooklyn Heights Allotment of part of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
63 as shown by recorded plat in Volume 17 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records (PPN 01420178);
Thence, northeasterly along the northerly line of said parcel to its intersection with the northeasterly line of
the parcel thereof;
Thence, southeasterly along northeasterly line of said parcel and its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Searsdale Avenue S.W.;
Thence, southwesterly along the centerline of Searsdale Avenue S.W. to its intersection with the centerline of
West 23rd Street;
Thence, southeasterly along the centerline of West 23rd Street to its intersection with northeasterly prolongation of the southerly line of a parcel of land known as being parts of Sublot Nos. 41 and 66, and all of Sublot
No. 42 in Brooklyn Heights Realty Company’s Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 63, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 45 of Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Records together forming PPN
01421082;
Thence, southeasterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of Sublot No. 40 as
part of the Brooklyn Height’s Realty Company Subdivision of part of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 63
as shown by recorded plat in Volume 45 of Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Records and known as PPN 01421084;
Thence, southeasterly along the easterly line of said parcel to its intersection with the southerly line of the
parcel thereof;
Thence, westerly along said southerly line and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Anthony Brancatelli on August 31, 1993 by John K. O’Toole,
Administrator of the estate of Bernard J. Bruck and part of Sublot No 117 in F.W. Sears Allotment of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 63 as shown by recorded plat in Volume 16 of Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 01420202);
Thence, northerly along said westerly line and continuing along its northerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Colburn Avenue;
Thence, easterly along the centerline of Colburn Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of
the westerly line of Sublot No. 6 in the F.W. Sears Subdivision of part of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No 63 as shown by recorded plat in Volume 40 of Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Records and known as PPN
01417051;
Thence, northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northwesterly corner of the parcel thereof;
Thence, southeasterly along the northerly line of said parcel to its intersection with the westerly line of parcel of land conveyed to Chad and Nassrean Dukdouk on April 17, 2015 and known as Sublot No. 51 in the Palmer
& Hanscom Allotment of part of the Original Brooklyn Township Lots No 63 & 64 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 27 of Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Records and referred to as PPN 01417056;
Thence, northeasterly along said westerly line and its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Altoona (formerly Manchester) Road S.W.;
Thence, northwesterly along the centerline of Altoona Road S.W. to its intersection with the centerline of West
34th Street;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of West 34th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Hanscom
Avenue and the point of origin;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to a ‘Two Family Residential’ District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District;
Section 2. Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, and State of Ohio, the Use District of lands
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline Pearl Road and the northwesterly prolongation of the northeasterly line of a parcel of land known as being all of Sublots Nos. 7, 8, 9, 12, 13 and part of Sublot No. 11 in
E.A. Stimson’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 63 and 64, as shown by recorded plats
in Volume 17 of Maps, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County Map Records; all of Sublots Nos. 2 through 6, Sublots Nos. 8
through 11, all inclusive, all of Sublot No. 20 and parts of Sublots Nos. 1, 7, and 12 in Palmer and Hanscom Allotment of part of the Original Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 63 and 64, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume
27 of Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Records; parts of Devonshire Road, S.W., and West 33rd Street, both
now vacated and also known now as PPN 01418001;
Thence, southeasterly along said northeasterly line of said parcel to its intersection with the southwesterly corner of
Sublot No. 457 and the southerly half of Sublot No. 456 in Brooklyn Terrace Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn

1684

October 10, 2018

The City Record

9

Township Lots Nos. 42 & 59 as shown by recorded plat in Volume 30 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Records and
known as PPN 01418003;
Thence, northeasterly along the southerly line of said parcel to its intersection with the southwesterly line of
Sublot No. 6 in E.A. Stimson’s Allotment, as shown by recorded Plat in Volume 17 of Maps, Page 27 of Cuyahoga
County Records and referred to as PPN 01418045;
Thence, southeasterly along said westerly line to its intersection with the southwesterly corner of said parcel;
Thence, northeasterly along southerly line of said parcel to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the centerline of Stimson Court;
Thence, southeasterly along the centerline of Stimson Court to its intersection with the southwesterly prolongation of the northerly line of PPN 01418057;
Thence, northeasterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of the parcel thereof;
Thence, southeasterly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot No. 33 in E.E.
Loewe Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 63 and 64, as shown by recorded plat in Volume 29 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records and known as PPN 01418021;
Thence, northeasterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of the parcel thereof;
Thence, southeasterly along the easterly line of said parcel and its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 30th Street;
Thence, southwesterly and southerly along the centerline of West 30th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Devonshire Road;
Thence, westerly and northwesterly along the centerline of Devonshire Road to its intersection with the easterly line of a PPN 01417025 also known as parcel of land conveyed to Red Hills Enterprise LLC by Brooklyn
Associates LLC LTD as recorded by AFN 200408091290 on August 9, 2004;
Thence, southwesterly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of the parcel thereof;
Thence, westerly along said southerly line and its westerly prolongation of its intersection with the southwesterly corner of a parcel of land granted to Deaconess Hospital of Cleveland and recorded on December 30,
1981 and known as PPN 01417063;
Thence, northeasterly along the westerly line of said parcel to its intersection with the southeasterly and easterly prolongation of the centerline of Altoona Road;
Thence, westerly and northwesterly along said prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 32nd
Street;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of West 32nd Street to its intersection with the centerline of Hanscom
Avenue;
Thence, northwesterly along the centerline of Hanscom Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West
34th Street;
Thence, southwesterly along the centerline of West 34th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Altoona
Road;
Thence, northwesterly along the centerline of Altoona Road to its intersection with the centerline of Pearl Road;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of Pearl Road to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of said PPN 01418001 and the point of origin;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to an ‘Institutional Research’ District, a ‘G’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District;
Section 3. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Searsdale Avenue and northwesterly prolongation of the easterly line of PPN 01421079, also known as parts of Sublots Nos. 43, 44, and 45 in Brooklyn Heights Realty Company’s Subdivision, now consolidated and known as PPN 01421042 as shown in Volume 45 of Maps, Page 2 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence, southeasterly along said line to the intersection with the southerly line of the parcel thereof;
Thence, southwesterly along said southerly line and its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of West 23rd Street;
Thence, northwesterly along the centerline of West 23rd Street to its intersection with the centerline of Searsdale Avenue;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of Searsdale Avenue to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the easterly line of said parcel and the point of origin;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to a ‘Local Retail Business’ District, a ‘D’ Area District, and a ‘1’ Height District;
Section 4. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Pearl Road and centerline of Broadview Road;
Thence, southeasterly along the centerline of Broadview Road to its intersection with the centerline of West
33rd Street;
Thence, southwesterly along the centerline of West 33rd Street to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot No. 6 in E.A. Stimson’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township,
Lot No. 63 and 64, as shown by recorded plat in Volume 17 of Maps, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County Records (PPN
01418045);
Thence, northwesterly along said prolongation of the westerly line of said parcel to its intersection with the
southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Julia Realty LTD as recorded on February 1, 2013 in Cuyahoga
County Records (PPN 01418003);
Thence, southwesterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of the parcel thereof;
Thence, northwesterly along said westerly line and its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Pearl Road;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of Pearl Road to its intersection with the centerline of Broadview
Road and the point of origin;
And;

1685

10

The City Record

October 10, 2018

Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Broadview Road and the centerline of Colburn Avenue;
Thence, southeasterly along the centerline of Broadview Road to its intersection with the easterly prolongation
of the southerly line of Sublot No. 106 in Brooklyn Heights Realty Company’s Subdivision of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 63 also known PPN 01421030, as shown by recorded plate in Volume 45 of Maps, Page
2 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence, westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed by Mark Straffen by deed to HWJV Properties LLC and known as PPN 01421151 as recorded on July 15,
2015 as shown in Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence, southerly along said easterly line and its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Montclair Avenue;
Thence, westerly along the centerline of Montclair Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation
of the westerly line of said parcel;
Thence, northerly along the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of said parcel to its intersection with
the southwesterly corner of a parcel of land conveyed by deed to Marable Karlena on September 13, 2012 and
also known as PPN 01421031;
Thence, northwesterly along the westerly line of said parcel and its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Roanoke Avenue;
Thence, westerly along Roanoke Avenue to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot No. 57 in The Brooklyn Heights Realty Company’s Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 63, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 45 of Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Records
(PPN 01421034);
Thence, northwesterly along the westerly line of said parcel and continuing along its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Searsdale Avenue;
Thence, northeasterly along Searsdale Avenue to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot No. 16 in aforementioned subdivision (PPN 01421043);
Thence, northwesterly along said line of said parcel to its intersection with the southeasterly line of Sublot No.
11 in said subdivision (PPN 01421048);
Thence, northwesterly along said line of said parcel and its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Colburn Avenue;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of Colburn Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Broadview Road and the point of origin;
And;
Beginning at the centerline of Colburn Avenue and the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot No.
59 in the F.W. Sears Subdivision of part of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 63, as shown by recorded
plat in Volume 16 of Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Records (PPN 01420015);
Thence, southerly along said easterly line and its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Searsdale Avenue;
Thence, continuing southerly along the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot No. 118 in said Subdivision (also known as PPN 01420200) to its intersection with the centerline of Montclair Avenue;
Thence, westerly along the centerline of Montclair Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of State Road;
Thence, northerly along the centerline of State Road to its intersection with the centerline of Colburn Avenue;
Thence, easterly along the centerline of Colburn Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the easterly line of PPN 01420015 and the point of origin;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to a ‘Local Retail Business’ District, a ‘G’ Area District,
and a ‘2’ Height District;
Section 5. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of West 33rd Street and the centerline of Broadview Road;
Thence, southeasterly along the centerline of Broadview Road to its intersection with the centerline of Colburn
Avenue;
Thence, southwesterly along the centerline of Colburn Avenue to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to James Kubic by deed as recorded by AFN
201011290793 on November 29, 2010 and also known as PPN 01419029 in Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence, northwesterly along said southwesterly line and its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with
the southeasterly line of PPN 01419201;
Thence, southwesterly along said southeasterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of said parcel;
Thence, westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of said parcel;
Thence, northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the southwesterly line of PPN 0141920;
Thence, northwesterly along said southwesterly line and its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with
the southwesterly line of PPN 01419017;
Thence, southwesterly along said line and its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the northeasterly line of PPN 01419053;
Thence, northwesterly along said line to its intersection with the southeasterly line of Sublot No. 8 in E.D.
Loewe’s Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 63 and 64 as shown by recorded plat in Volume 29 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records and known as PPN 01419013;
Thence, northeasterly along said line to its intersection with the southwesterly line of a parcel of land known
as PPN 01419016 or parts of Sublots Nos. 4 and 5 in said subdivision as shown by Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence, northwesterly along said southwesterly line and its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of West 30th Street;
Thence, southwesterly along the centerline of West 30th Street to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of Sublot No. 3 in said Subdivision also known as PPN 01418020;
Thence, northwesterly along said southwesterly line and its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with
the southeasterly line of PPN 01418017;

1686

October 10, 2018

The City Record

11

Thence, southwesterly along sad southeasterly line to its intersection with the westerly line of the parcel thereof;
Thence, northwesterly along said line of said parcel to its intersection with the northwesterly line of PPN
01418057;
Thence, southwesterly along said northwesterly line and it southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Stimson Court;
Thence, northwesterly along the centerline of Stimson Court to its intersection with the centerline of West 33rd
Street;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of West 33rd Street to its intersection with the centerline of Broadview Road and the point of origin;
And;
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Broadview Road and the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to GPD LTD as recorded on November 25, 1997 in AFN 00624823 of Cuyahoga County Records and known as PPN 01421029;
Thence, southeasterly along the centerline of Broadview Road to its intersection with the centerline of Montclair Avenue;
Thence, westerly along the centerline of Montclair Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation
of the westerly line of the parcel thereof;
Thence, northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of the parcel thereof;
Thence, easterly along said northerly line and its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Broadview Road and the point of origin;
And;
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Altoona Road and the centerline of Pearl Road;
Thence, southeasterly along the centerline of Altoona Road to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot No. 51 in the Palmer and Hanscom Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lots Nos. 63 and 64 as shown by recorded plat Volume 27, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Records and
known as PPN 01417056;
Thence, southwesterly along westerly line of said parcel to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot
No. 6 in F.W. Sears Subdivision in said Township as shown by recorded plat in Volume 40 of Maps, Page 21 of
Cuyahoga County Records (PPN 01417051);
Thence, westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of the parcel thereof;
Thence, southerly along the westerly line of said parcel and its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Colburn Avenue;
Thence, westerly along the centerline of Colburn Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of State Road;
Thence, southerly along the centerline of State Road to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
northerly line of a parcel of land known as being Sublots Nos. 1 and 2 in John Koch’s Allotment of part of original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 58, as shown by recorded plat in Volume 27 of Maps, page 27 of Cuyahoga County Records and known as PPN 01416008;
Thence, westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the centerline of Pearl Road;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of Pearl Road to its intersection with the centerline of Altoona Road
and the point of origin;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to a ‘Limited Retail Business’ District, a ‘G’ Area District, and a ‘2’ Height District;
Section 6. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Pearl Road and the slightly north and westerly prolongation
of the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to MCPc Holdings Inc.(and its’ subsidiary 4371 Pearl Road
LLC) by the City of Cleveland on September 27, 2018 as recorded in Cuyahoga County Records also known as
PPN 01416008;
Thence, southeasterly and easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the centerline of State Road
(formerly West 35th Street);
Thence, southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line
of the parcel thereof;
Thence, westerly and slightly northwesterly along said southerly line and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Pearl Road;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of Pearl Road to it intersection with the north and westerly prolongation of the northerly line of said parcel and the point of origin;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to a ‘Semi-Industry’ Use District, a ‘G’ Area District, and
a ‘2’ Height District;
Section 7. That the street frontages described as follows:
The southeasterly side of Pearl Road between the southerly line of a parcel of land that was conveyed to MCPc
Holdings Inc. by the City of Cleveland on June 27 2018 ( and known as PPN 0146008) and Broadview Road;
And;
The westerly and easterly side of State Road between Montclair Avenue and Altoona Road;
And;
The southwester side of Broadview Road between Pearl Road and Montclair Avenue;
And as identified on the attached map shall be established as ‘Urban Form Overlay Districts’
Section 8. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 through 11 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2588, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 9. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

1687

The City Record

12

October 10, 2018

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1236-18.
By Council Members Griffin, Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
East 103rd Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of East 103rd Street, as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion of the following described real
property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Newburgh Lot No. 409 now in the
City of Cleveland as shown in the
W.H. Doans Subdivision in Volume
12 on Maps, Page 23 of Cuyahoga
County Records, further described

as follows:
Being all that portion of East
103rd Street (40.00 feet wide) (formerly known as Halsey Street)
extending from the south line of
Cedar Avenue S.E. (66.00 feet wide)
to the north line of Wain Court S.E.
(15.00 feet wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Res. No. 1237-18.
By Council Members McCormack,
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).

1688

An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Freeman Avenue S.W.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Freeman Avenue S.W., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion of the following described real
property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of Freeman Avenue S.W.
(66.00 feet wide) extending from the
West right of way of Columbus
Road (80.00 feet wide) westerly to
that portion of Freeman Avenue
S.W. vacated by ordinance 98591
passed by the council of the City of
Cleveland on April 20th 1934.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.

October 10, 2018
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1245-18.
By Council Member J. Jones.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 3895 Lee
Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Socotra, Inc., DBA Food
Plus, 3895 Lee Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44128, Permit Number 8352307 to
Quick Lee, LLC, DBA Food Plus,
3895 Lee Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44128, Permit Number 7140205; and
Whereas, , the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Socotra, Inc., DBA Food
Plus, 3895 Lee Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44128, Permit Number 8352307 to
Quick Lee, LLC, DBA Food Plus,

The City Record
3895 Lee Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44128, Permit Number 7140205; and
requests
the
Superintendent
of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1246-18.
By Council Members Brady, Jones,
J. Jones, Bishop, McCormack, Johnson, Cleveland, Griffin, Polensek,
Conwell, Hairston, Brancatelli, Kelley,
Santana,
Zone,
Kazy,
and
Keane.
An emergency resolution urging
the U.S. Postal Service to expand
and enhance existing services such
as check cashing and international
money transfers, and to take necessary steps towards designing and
implementing additional financial
services.
Whereas, an astounding one in
four U.S. households (26.9%) is at
least partially outside the financial
mainstream, or underserved by traditional banks, according to a 2015
survey by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and
Whereas, those underserved by
traditional banks must rely on highcost and often predatory “alternative” financial services including
payday loans and check-cashing services,
resulting
in
underserved
households with an average annual
income of $25,000 spending an average of $2,400 per year on interest
and fees; and
Whereas, access to financial services is key to ensuring economic
and social opportunity for lowincome Americans, a vital priority
at a time of growing inequality in
our nation; and
Whereas, large banks have closed
branches in low-income communities
(where the largest number of underserved Americans reside); and
Whereas, the U.S. Postal Service
operates more than 33,000 retail
locations nationwide, many of which
are located in “bank deserts” (59
percent of post offices are in zip
codes with either zero banks or only
one bank branch), including 22 locations in Cleveland; and
Whereas, the U.S. Postal Service
has a mandate to serve all Americans, regardless of geography, at
affordable and uniform pricing; and
has
a
skilled
workforce
which
processes more than 286,000 money
orders every day; therefore, the

1689

13
Postal Service has the infrastructure
to provide much-needed financial
services;
Whereas, worldwide, 1.5 billion
people receive some financial services through their postal service
and the U.S. Post Office Department
successfully offered financial services, including savings accounts,
for more than 50 years from 19111967; and
Whereas, the Postal Service is
consistently rated one of the most
trusted institutions and enjoys a
much higher level of confidence
from the public than do banks and
payday lenders; and
Whereas,
the
USPS
Office
of
Inspector General asserts that the
Postal Service can act now to provide
consumers
with
affordable
financial services, by expanding and
enhancing services including money
orders
and
international
money
transfers, and introducing new services such as check-cashing, bill
pay, and no-fee ATMS, and can do
so under current legal and regulatory authority; and
Whereas, providing these services
would strengthen our national treasure, the public Postal Service; and
Whereas, the U.S. Conference of
Mayors endorsed postal banking in
2014, and the communities of Lakewood, Brookpark, Fairview Park,
and Berea join Cleveland in adopting resolutions;
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the U.S. Postal Service to expand
and enhance existing services such
as check cashing and international
money transfers, and to take necessary steps towards designing and
implementing additional financial
services.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to send copies of this
resolution to the Campaign for
Postal Banking.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 497-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
American Airlines, Inc., for the purchase of up to five used passenger
boarding bridges, including but not

14
limited to associated labor, equipment, materials, or services, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Transportation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In the title, lines 4 and 5, strike
“for the purchase of up to” and
insert “to purchase and refurbish”;
and in line 6 after “bridges” insert
“and to refurbish up to five other
passenger boarding bridges”.
2. In Section 1, line 4, strike “for
the purchase of up to” and insert “to
purchase and refurbish”; and in line
5, after “bridges” insert “and to
refurbish up to five other passenger
boarding bridges”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 671-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
F & E Aircraft Maintenance for the
lease of certain space in Building
No. 101 located at 19200 Primary
Road at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for the purpose of
conducting
aircraft
maintenance
and other support services for various tenants at the airport, for the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of one year, with four oneyear options to renew, the second of
which shall require additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 672-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
MRK Aviation for the lease of certain space in Building No. 217 located at 6000 North Cargo Road at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport for the purpose of conducting air cargo operations and other
support services for various tenants
at the airport, for the Department of
Port Control, for a period of one
year, with four one-year options to
renew, the second of which shall
require
additional
legislative
authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 748-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of replacing the
cooling chiller system and associated appurtenances at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more public
improvement contracts to construct
the improvement; and authorizing
the director to employ one or more
professional consultants necessary
to design the Improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 750-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of labor and materials
needed
to
maintain,
repair,
or
replace existing EV-6 switchgear
and transfer switches, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 805-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts with Siemens Industry,
Inc. for labor and materials necessary to maintain, repair and expand
the
existing
Apogee
building
automation system, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
for a period not to exceed two years,
with two one-year options to renew,
the first of which requires additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 915-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the third option to renew
Contract No. PS 2014-10 with the
United Services Organization, Inc. to
provide for the operation of a US
military traveler support lounge at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Department of Port Control.

1690

October 10, 2018
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 917-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
MarKenCami, LLC for the lease of
office space at Burke Lakefront Airport for the operation of a software
company, for a period of two years,
with
three
one-year
options
to
renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional legislative
authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 918-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Zone Aviation for the lease of office
space at Burke Lakefront Airport
for the operation of a flight training school, aircraft management,
and pilot support services, for a
period of two years, with three oneyear options to renew, the first of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1030-18.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to
accept gift of preliminary plans and
other deliverables from YMCA for
the update of the City’s Master Bikeway plan.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1033-18.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Urban
Development Action Grant agreement with the Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., or its
designee, to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially

October 10, 2018
finance the redevelopment of the
East Side Market.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 15.
Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Members Kevin
Conwell and Anthony T. Hairston
recused themselves for the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 1033-18.
Ord. No. 1038-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of demolishing
the existing pump station, constructing a new one, and making
site improvements; authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts; and authorizing the director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by
Committees
on
Utilities,
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1106-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
T & G Flying Club, Inc. for the
lease of space in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront
Airport for operation of a flight
training school, aircraft rental program, and related services for student pilots, for the Department of
Port Control, for a period of one
year, with four one-year options to
renew, the third of which is exercised
by
additional
legislative
authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1107-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide quality assurance and surveying services for airport-related projects, for a period of
one
year,
with
three
one-year
options to renew, the second of
which requires additional legislation.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1112-18.
By Council Members Griffin, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance approving the addition of certain property
to the Northeast Ohio Advanced
Energy
District;
accepting
and
approving a petition and plan from
a property owner in the District
identifying
a
special
energy
improvement project, declaring it
necessary to conduct the special
energy improvement project providing for the assessment of the cost
and expense of such special energy
improvement project; and authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Energy Project Cooperative Agreement and a
Special Assessment Agreement to
implement the project; and declaring
an emergency.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1113-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 25 of Ordinance No. 323-15,
passed March 30, 2015, as amended
by various ordinances, relating to
compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1114-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 58 and 59 of Ordinance No.
323-18, passed March 30,2 015, as
amended
by
various
ordinances,
relating to compensation for various
classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1116-18.
By Council Members Zone, Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase property
located at 7501 Madison Avenue
needed for expanding the LawnMadison Park, for the Department
of Public Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development

1691

15
Planning
and
Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1217-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 16 and 35 of Ordinance No.
323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as
amended, regarding compensation
for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1218-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from the Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services
Board of Cuyahoga County for the
2018-19
Specialized
Dockets
Program; and authorizing the Director
to enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies, entities, or
individuals to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1219-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing payment of membership dues of
the City of Cleveland in the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating
Agency for 2019.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:48 p.m. to meet on Monday, October 15, 2018, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

The City Record

16
BOARD OF CONTROL
October 3, 2018
The meeting of the Board of Control convened in the Mayor’s office
on Wednesday, October 3, 2018 at
10:45 a.m. with Director Langhenry
presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Tiffany White Johnson,
Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
William Sonntag, Acting Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Michael Curry, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On
motions,
the
resolutions
attached were adopted, except as
may be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 399-18.
By Director Davis.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 626-11, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on May 16,
2011, and Board of Control Resolution No. 205-12, adopted May 16, 2012,
the City of Cleveland entered into
City Contract No. PS2012-170 with
Woolpert, Inc. for the professional
technology consulting services necessary to implement for the Division
of Water Pollution Control as a pilot
project, a new work order and asset
management
system
ultimately
intended for the various divisions of
City
government
(the
“citywide
Work Order and Asset/Inventory
Management System” or the “System”), and approving Azteca Systems, Inc. and another firm as subconsultants; and
Whereas,
the
citywide
Work
Order/Asset
Management
System
runs on the Azteca Systems, Inc.
Cityworks software, and the City
must annually renew the licenses
for use and an agreement for support and maintenance services for
the System to obtain full use of the
System’s software; and
Whereas, division (c) of Section
181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (“C.O.”) authorizes a director to execute one or
more license agreements for software needed to implement or maintain a previously acquired software
system directly with software licensing firm; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., and Board of
Control Resolution No. 125-16, adopted March 30, 2016, the City, through
the Director of Public Utilities,
entered into a contract with Azteca
Systems, Inc., City Contract No.
PS2016-208, to obtain professional
services necessary for support and
maintenance, including upgrades, of
the System and to renew the licenses for the System software for the
one-year term starting November 1,
2016 for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public
Utilities; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., and Board of
Control Resolution No. 147-17, adopted March 29, 2017, the City, through
the Director of Public Utilities,
entered
into
City
Contract
No.
PS2017-148 with Azteca Systems,

LLC (fka Azteca Systems, Inc.) for
acquisition of an enterprise license
for citywide use of the System and
to obtain the professional services
necessary for support and maintenance, including upgrades, for the
System software, for an 18-month
term starting May 1, 2017; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
Azteca Systems, LLC (fka Azteca
Systems, Inc.) to renew the necessary software licenses and to obtain
the professional services necessary
to continue support and maintenance including upgrades, for the
Azteca
Work
Order
and
Asset/Inventory Management System for use citywide, for a one-year
term starting November 1, 2018; now
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid Azteca Systems, LLC (fka Azteca Systems,
Inc.) under the agreement for support
and
maintenance
services,
including upgrades, for the Azteca
Work Order and Asset/Inventory
Management System for use citywide, for the one-year term starting
November 1, 2018, shall not exceed
$297,000.00.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, West, Acting Directors
Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Menesse.
Resolution No. 400-18.
By Director Davis.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2430-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
February 2, 2004, and Ordinance No.
1036-07, passed on August 8, 2007,
and Resolution No. 498-07, adopted
by the Board of Control on September 7, 2007, the City, through its
Director of Public Utilities, entered
into Contract No. 67252 with Bearing
Point, Inc. for professional services
necessary to provide a new Customer Information System/Customer
Relationship Management System
(CIS/CRM), Oracle’s Customer Care
and Billing (CC&B) system, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities (DPU); and
Whereas, under authority of Section 181.102 (d), allows for the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into contracts for professional services to supplement the regularly
employed staff of the several divisions of the DPU to implement or
maintain the software, including but
not limited to, integration, implementation, migration, installation,
design,
interfacing,
maintenance,
repair,
upgrades,
enhancements,
training, testing, and technical support; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
Ernst
&
Young U.S. LLP is selected from a
list of firms determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Utilities as the firm to
be employed by contract to provide
professional services, in order to
upgrade the Oracle CC&B system,

1692

October 10, 2018
until successful completion of the
project, for the Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland, that under the authority
of Section 181.102 C.O., that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
Ernst & Young U.S. LLP based upon
its proposal dated, June 14, 2018
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
for furnishing of professional services described in the proposal, for
a fee not to exceed $6,818,807.00, and
shall contain such additional provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor by Ernst & Young U.S.
LLP for the above-mentioned professional services is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

OM Consulting Group,
LLC (CSB)

$681,880.70
10.0%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, West, Acting Directors
Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Menesse.
Resolution No. 401-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by DLZ Ohio, Inc.
under Contract No PS2018-055 to provide professional consulting services
for General Engineering Services X,
and other services including, but not
limited
to,
engineering
design,
preparing feasibility studies and
engineering analyses, plan review,
planning, construction monitoring
and inspection, environmental site
assessment, identification of surface
and subsurface conditions, preparation of reports for regulatory agencies,
specialized
technical
assistance, water quality, and other related professional consulting services,
on an as needed basis, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, is approved:
Subcontractor

Work
Percentage

Limno-Tech, Inc (non-certified)
$61,435.00
0.00%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, West, Acting Directors
Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Menesse.
Resolution No. 402-18.
By Director Kennedy.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 247-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 6, 2011 the City of Cleveland
entered into a Parking Facilities

October 10, 2018
Management, Operation and Maintenance Service Agreement (“Agreement”) with Standard Parking Corporation, now known as SP Plus,
Contract No. NF2012*023, to manage,
operate and maintain the parking
facilities for public and employee
parking at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Burke Lakefront
Airport and all Harbors parking
lots; and
Whereas, Board of Control Resolutions No. 149-17, No. 47-17, No. 40116 and No. 273-16, adopted March 29,
2017, January 25, 2017, September 7,
2016 and June 8, 2016, fixed parking
rates for the various parking facilities under the administration and
control of the Director of Port Control; and
Whereas, the City has determined
to amend the parking charges for
certain parking areas at Burke
Lakefront Airport and the North
Coast Harbor; and
Whereas, Article 5.9 of the Agreement
requires
approval
of
this
Board
to
change
the
parking
charges set forth in the Agreement;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the rates to be charged for parking
in the various lots at Burke Lakefront Airport, Marginal Road, Lots 9
& 10 and the Pier are fixed, effective April 1, 2018, at those set forth
in the following schedule:
BURKE LAKEFRONT,
MARGINAL ROAD,
LOTS 9 & 10, AND THE
PIER PARKING RATES
Burke Lakefront Airport:
Daily Rate (0 to 24 hours)
$7.00 per day
Monthly Parking Rate
Up to $50.00 per month
Replacement Key Card Fee
$50.00
Special Events Rate
Up to $50.00 per day
NSF Check Fee
$25.00
Marginal Road: (Pay on
Foot System):
0 to 30 minutes
$2.00
30 to 60 minutes
$4.00
1 hour to 2 hours
$8.00
2 hours to 3.5 hours
$10.00
Greater than 3.5 hours
$13.00
Special Events Rate
Up to $50.00 per day
Monthly Parking Rate
Up to $50.00 per month
Replacement Key Card Fee
$50.00
NSF Check Fee
$25.00
Lots 9 & 10 (Pay on Foot System):
0 to 30 minutes
$2.00
30 to 60 minutes
$4.00
1 hour to 2 hours
$8.00
2 hours to 3.5 hours
$10.00
Greater than 3.5 hours
$13.00
Special Events Rate
Up to $50.00 per day
Monthly Parking Rate
Up to $50.00 per month
Replacement Key Card Fee
$50.00
NSF Check Fee
$25.00
Dock Lots:
Dock 28B
Daily Rate (0 to 24 hours)
$6.00 per day
Special Events Rate
Up to $50.00 per day
NSF Check Fee
$25.00
Dock 30
Daily Rate (0 to 24 hours)
$6.00 per day

The City Record
Special Events Rate
Up to $50.00 per day
NSF Check Fee
$25.00
Dock 32
Daily Rate (0 to 24 hours)
$6.00 per day
Special Events Rate
Up to $50.00 per day
NSF Check Fee
$25.00
The Pier - Offseason Rates (Pay on
Foot System):
Rates for the period November 15th
through April 14th:
0 to 60 minutes
$1.00
1 hour to 2 hours
$2.00
2 hours to 3.5 hours
$3.00
Greater than 3.5 hours
$10.00
Special Events Rate
Up to $50.00 per day
Monthly Rate
Up to $50.00 per month
Replacement Key Card Fee
$50.00
NSF Check Fee
$25.00
The Pier - Peak Season Rates (Pay
on Foot System):
Rates for the period April 15th
through November 14th
0 to 30 minutes
$2.00
30 to 60 minutes
$4.00
1 hour to 2 hours
$8.00
2 hours to 3.5 hours
$10.00
Greater than 3.5 hours
$16.00
Special Events Rate
Up to $50.00 per day
Replacement Key Card Fee
$50.00
NSF Check Fee
$25.00
Be it further resolved that all
rates fixed in Board of Control Resolution No. 149-17, No. 47-17, No. 40116 and No. 273-16, adopted March 29,
2017, January 25, 2017, September 7,
2016 and June 8, 2016 respectively,
or approved or fixed for other parking facilities under administration
and control of the Director of Port
Control by any other resolution of
this Board and which are inconsistent with those fixed in this resolution, are rescinded effective April 1,
2018.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 403-18.
By Director Kennedy.
Whereas, under the authority of
Article 6 of the Agreements and
Leases between the City of Cleveland and various Air Carriers at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Board of Control Resolution
No. 286-18, as amended by Resolution
No. 314-18, adopted July 25, 2018 and
August 22, 2018 respectively, set the
fee to be paid by each airline for
each use of a City-owned jetbridge
(for each arrival or departure of an
aircraft operated by or on behalf of
the airline) at “$150.00 per use”; and
Whereas, the City has determined
to establish a maximum fee to be
charged each airline for its use of
any particular City-owned jetbridge
in any month; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution
No.
314-18,
adopted
August 22, 2018, is amended by

1693

17
changing the fee it set from “$150.00
per use” to “$150.00 per use, subject
to a $2,500.00 monthly maximum per
each City-owned jetbridge used”,
where appearing in the resolution.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
314-18 not expressly amended by this
resolution shall remain unchanged
and in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 404-18.
By Director Kennedy.
Whereas, under Purchase Orders
Nos.
2012*279,
2014*174
and
2015*1596, the City acquired software licenses and services from
PASSUR Aerospace, Inc. for its Portal core and landing fee audit and
landing fee management software
modules; and
Whereas, under various purchase
orders to and contracts with PASSUR
Aerospace,
Inc.,
the
City,
through its Director of Port Control,
has obtained the software maintenance services necessary to implement and maintain the landing fee
management billing and audit systems and the Portal core, including,
but not limited to, maintenance,
technical support and other related
services, renewal of software and
licenses and/or development necessary to update, upgrade, enhance,
interface and integrate the various
billing and other systems; and
Whereas, when a director has
been authorized to contract with a
software developer or vendor, division (d) of Section 181.102 C.O.
authorizes the director of the department for which the software is
acquired to enter into an agreement
with the software vendor for professional
services
necessary
to
implement or maintain the software
system, including but not limited to
maintenance,
repair,
upgrades,
enhancements, training and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O. the City intends
to enter into a contract with PASSUR Aerospace, Inc. to provide continued software maintenance for the
Landing Fee Management Modules
and the Portal core at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, for a
term starting October 1, 2018 and
expiring September 30, 2019; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid PASSUR Aerospace, Inc. to provide continued software maintenance for the aforementioned Modules and core, at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport is fixed at not to exceed
$141,799.00.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

The City Record

18
Resolution No. 405-18.
By Director Kennedy.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of The Greenleaf Group, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of labor and
materials necessary to maintain and
replace exterior landscaping and
other site landscaping, if necessary,
all items, for the various divisions,
for the Department of Port Control,
for a period of two years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, with two one-year options to
renew, received on August 10, 2018,
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $297,824.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractor
by The Greenleaf Group, Inc. is
approved:
Sub-contractor

Percentage
Amount

RiverEdge Landscape and
Supply

21.8%
$65,000.00

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 406-18.
By Director Kennedy.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received for the necessary labor and
materials needed to repair, replace
and maintain existing carpeting tile,
if necessary, all items, at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, for
the Department of Port Control,
received on September 19, 2018,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
947-17, passed October 9, 2017, are
rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 407-18.
By Director Spronz.
Whereas, on April 5, 2018, the City
of Cleveland entered into Contract
No. PI2018*015 with Apex Construction and Management Company, Inc.
for the public improvement of the
Fire Station No. 4 Mechanical and
Utilities
Improvements,
for
the
Office of Capital Projects in the
aggregate amount of $240,100.00; and

Whereas, Apex Construction and
Management
Company,
Inc.
has
requested the City’s consent to add
additional firms as subcontractors
under Contract No. PI2018*015 for
which C.O. Section 185.36 requires
previous written consent of the
Board of Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
sub-contractors by Apex Construction
and
Management
Company,
Inc., under City of Cleveland Contract No. PI2018*015 for the Fire Station 4 Mechanical and Utilities
Improvements entered into on April
5, 2018, is approved.
Epic Steel Company
CSB — $2,245.00 — 0.93%
Cunningham Paving Co., Inc.
CSB — TBD — 0.00%
London Rd. Electric Co.
CSB — TBD — 0.00%
TAT Construction
N/A — $5,000.00 — 0.00%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 408-18.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Perk Co., Inc. for the public improvement of the 2018 Brookfield Park Pavilion Site Improvements, Base Bid, All Items, except
items 8 and 14 for the Office of Capital Projects, received on August 9,
2018 under the authority of Ordinance No. 648-18 passed June 4, 2018,
upon a unit price basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $193,704.00 is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of the
Office of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into contract with the
bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Perk Co., Inc. is hereby approved:
CSB/MBE/FBE
Amount
Percentage

Subcontractor

Cuyahoga Supply & Tool

CSB
$52,230.00
26.9%

P. G. T. Construction Inc.

CSB
$ 4,500.00
2.3%

Tech Ready Mix, Inc.

CSB
$ 3,900.00
2.0%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

1694

October 10, 2018
Resolution No. 409-18.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Apex Construction and
Management Company, Inc. for the
public improvement of the Room 518
Renovations, Base Bid all Items,
and Add Optional Items 1 and 3, for
the
Office
of
Capital
Projects,
received on August 31, 2018 under
the authority of Ordinance No. 55017 passed June 5 , 2017, upon a gross
price basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of $164,950.00
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of the Office of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into contract
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Apex Construction and Management
Group is hereby approved:
Subcontractor
Amount

CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

London Rd. Electric
$27,000.00

CSB
16.3%

Imperial Mechanical
$20,000.00

CSB
12.1%

The Alcose Group, LLC
$20,000.00

N/A
0.0%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 410-18.
By Directors Spronz and Cox.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 923-18,
passed August 15, 2018 by the Council of the City of Cleveland, authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, by and at the direction of the Board of Control, to convey two permanent easement interests to the Boys & Girls Clubs of
Cleveland, and a temporary easement interest to the West Creek
Conservancy, both of which are
more fully described in the ordinance and found and determined not
to be needed for public use, for the
Morgana Bluffs Nature Preserve and
Learning Center; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 923-18 also
authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, by and at the
direction of the Board of Control, to
convey a portion of Permanent Parcel
No.
131-24-005
more
fully
described in the ordinance, at a
price of $1.00 and other valuable
consideration determined to be fair
market value to the West Creek
Conservancy; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Ordinance No. 923-18, passed
August 15, 2018 by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
directed to convey the above-mentioned permanent easements and
temporary
easement,
more
fully
described in the ordinance, respectively to the Boys & Girls Clubs of
Cleveland and to the West Creek
Conservancy, at no cost.

October 10, 2018
Be it further resolved that the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is directed to convey the aforementioned portion of Permanent
Parcel No. 131-24-005, more fully
described in the ordinance, to the
West Creek Conservancy at a price
of $1.00.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor, Director of Capital Projects,
and Director of Public Works, as
appropriate, are requested to execute and deliver the official deed
and deeds of temporary and permanent easement of the City of Cleveland. The deeds shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law determines are necessary to
protect and benefit the City’s interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 411-18.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 927-18, passed August
15, 2018 by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, by and at the direction
of Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey one exclusive
perpetual easement interest found
and determined to be not needed for
the City’s public use and more fully
described in the ordinance, in City
owned property along the west side
of East 105th Street between Mt.
Sinai Drive and East Boulevard, to
the Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Company, at the appraised value
price of $69,500, which has been
determined to be fair market value;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under authority of Ordinance No.
927-18, passed August 15, 2018 by the
Cleveland City Council, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is directed to convey to the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company
one exclusive perpetual easement
interest found and determined to be
not needed for the City’s public use
and more fully described in the ordinance, in City owned property along
the west side of East 105th Street
between Mt. Sinai Drive and East
Boulevard.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Works is requested to execute and deliver the official deed of the City of Cleveland
conveying the aforementioned exclusive perpetual easement, which document shall contain such additional
terms and provisions as the Director
of Law shall determine are necessary to protect the City’s interests.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 412-18.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 926-18, passed August
15, 2018 by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, by and at the direction

The City Record
of Board of Control the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey certain nonexclusive perpetual aerial easement
interests found and determined to be
not needed for the City’s public use
and more fully described in the ordinance, in City-owned property located along the south side of Cedar
Road between Ambleside Road and
Harcourt Drive in the City of Cleveland Heights, to the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, at the
appraised value price of $900.00,
which has been determined to be
fair market value; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under authority of Ordinance No.
926-18, passed August 15, 2018 by the
Cleveland City Council, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is directed to convey to the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company,
certain non-exclusive perpetual aerial easement interests found and
determined to be not needed for the
City’s public use and more fully
described in the ordinance, in Cityowned property located along the
south side of Cedar Road between
Ambleside Road and Harcourt Drive
in the City of Cleveland Heights.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Works is requested to execute and deliver the official deeds of the City of Cleveland
conveying the aforementioned nonexclusive
perpetual
aerial
easements, which documents shall contain such additional terms and provisions as the Director of Law shall
determine are necessary to protect
the City’s interests.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 413-18.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received for an estimated
quantity of 2018 Seasonal City-wide
tree planting, Group B, all items, for
the Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties, Department of Public Works, received on June 8, 2018,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
288-17, passed by Cleveland City
Council on April 10, 2017, are rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 414-18.
By Director Menesse.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
727-18, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 4, 2018,
Carolyn Smith is selected by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
as
the
consultant
to
be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of several departments of the City of
Cleveland to perform the professional services necessary to provide

1695

19
technical assistance to Storefront
Renovation
Program
applicants
located in all areas of the city for
calendar year 2019, for the Division
of
Neighborhood
Development,
Department of Community Development.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to enter into contract
with Carolyn Smith, which shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
shall provide for the furnishing of
professional services for the Storefront Renovation Program above for
the term starting January 1, 2019
and ending December 31, 2019, for
an aggregate fee of $44,000, and
shall contain such additional provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 415-18.
By Director Ebersole.
Whereas, that under the authority
of Section 183.021(b)(11) of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by
the Director of Economic Development is authorized to acquire property from third parties at a purchase
price determined to be fair market
value by the Board of Control, to
hold in the Industrial Commercial
Land Bank; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Economic
Development, to purchase Permanent Parcel No. 126-27-070, located at
8123 Holton Avenue, to hold in the
Industrial-Commercial Land Bank,
at a price of $65,000.00, which
amount is determined to be fair market value.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 416-18.
By Director Ebersole.
Whereas, that under the authority
of Section 183.021(b)(11) of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by
the Director of Economic Development is authorized to acquire property from third parties at a purchase
price determined to be fair market
value by the Board of Control, to
hold in the Industrial Commercial
Land Bank; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Economic
Development, to purchase Permanent Parcel Nos. 124-29-058, 124-29-047
and 124-29-046, located at 2840 E.
78th Street, to hold in the Industrial-Commercial Land Bank, at a price
of $80,000.00 for all three parcels,

The City Record

20
which amount is determined to be
fair market value.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Szabo,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, Acting
Directors Butler, Cisler, and Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination
as
soon
as
the
commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 18-211: 16501 Marquis
Ave. (Ward 17)
Chris and Tami Marinella, owner,
proposes to erect a 14'-6" x 29'-6" 1
story frame family room addition
and 16' x 20' wolmanized wooden
deck in an A1 One-Family Residential District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
Section 357.09 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
the required interior side yard of 5.1
feet and the appellant is proposing
2.1; for deck and room addition and
1.6’ for roof eaves. (Filed September
24, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-212: 1484 E. 105th
Street (Ward 9)
Famicos Foundation, owner, proposes to establish use as administrative offices, afterschool child
educational
programming,
meeting/assembly space (indoor spaces
for 93 occupants) and outdoor event

performances for a non-profit community arts organization in an A1
One-Family
Residential
District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 337.02(g)(3)(G) which
states that the proposed use is
allowed in a One Family District if
approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals after public notice and public hearing, and if adequate yard
spaces and other safeguards to preserve the character of the neighborhood are provided, and if in the
judgment of the Board such building and uses are appropriately located and designed and will meet a
community need without adversely
affecting the neighborhood, and if
located not less than thirty (30) feet
from any adjoining promises in a
Residence District. Proposed use is
within 30 feet of adjoining premises in a Residence District.
2. Section 349.04(d) which states
that accessory off street parking is
required at the rate of one space per
500 square feet of office space, and
one space per 150 square feet of
assembly space therefore 13 accessory off street parking spaces are
required. Any proposed off premises
parking requires approval of the
Board of Zoning Appeals. (Filed
September 25, 2018)
Waste Collection Appeal
Calendar No. 18-213: 3205 Denison
Ave. (Ward 12)
Dorothy Rieman, owner, appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances and
disputes the decision of the hearing
examiner
in
Parking
Violations
Bureau on September 18, 2018 concerning the City of Cleveland Waste
Collection issuance of Civil Infraction
Ticket
Number
WC40021255
issued August 16, 2018 regarding
failure
to
comply
with
Section
551.111(B) in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances. (Filed September 26,
2018)
Calendar No. 18-214: 2165 W. 28th
Street (Ward 3)
Josh Harrell, owner, proposes to
erect a 20' x 20' reverse gable
garage with a 8' x 20' roof covered
concrete patio in an A1 One Family
Residential
District.
The
owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of Section 357.05(b)(1)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that the side
street yard on rear third of corner
lot shall not be less than 15 feet and
the appellant is proposing 3 feet.
(Filed October 1, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-215: 12727 Buckeye
Rd. (Ward 6)
Blossom 24 Hour We Care Center,
Inc., owner, proposes to establish
use as assisted living for the aged
in a C2 Residence-Office District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 337.11 which states that
in a Residence-Office District, every
building
or
structure
erected,
altered or remodeled and every use
of land occupied on or after December 16, 1959, shall provide the total

1696

October 10, 2018
number of accessory off-street parking spaces as required the Zoning
Code.
2. Section 337.12 which states that
an application for a building permit
shall not be approved unless a parking plan is submitted with it that
shows the location, dimensions and
graded of all required parking
spaces.
3. Section 337.13 which states that
the required parking for homes for
the aged is 1 for each staff member,
including doctors and nurses, plus 1
for each 3 other employees expected
on the premises during the largest
work shift period, plus 1 for each 6
beds. 6 spaces are required and no
off-street parking proposed.(Filed
October 1, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-216: 4419 Train Ave.
(Ward 3)
Train 4411, LLC., owner, proposes
to install an 8 foot tall fence in the
front, side and rear yard of a parcel located in a B1 Semi-Industry
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
Section 358.05 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
fences in actual front yards and in
side street yards shall not exceed
four (4) feet in height and shall be
at least fifty percent (50%) open
above two (2) feet in height. This
section also states that in actual
rear yards and actual interior side
yards, fences shall not exceed six
(6) feet in height and may be open
or solid. The proposed fence is 8 feet
tall. (Filed October 2, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-217: 3017 West 46th
Street (Ward 3)
Worldwide Painting, owner, proposes to install an 8 foot tall fence
in the front, side and rear yard of
a parcel located in a B1 Semi-Industry District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
Section 358.05 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
fences in actual front yards and in
side street yards shall not exceed
four (4) feet in height and shall be
at least fifty percent (50%) open
above two (2) feet in height. This
section also states that in actual
rear yards and actual interior side
yards, fences shall not exceed six
(6) feet in height and may be open
or solid. The proposed fence is 8 feet
tall. (Filed October 2, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-218: 3021 West 46th
Street (Ward 3)
Train 4411, LLC., owner, proposes
to install an 8 foot tall fence in the
front, side and rear yard of a parcel located in a B1 Semi-Industry
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
Section 358.05 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
fences in actual front yards and in
side street yards shall not exceed
four (4) feet in height and shall be
at least fifty percent (50%) open
above two (2) feet in height. This
section also states that in actual
rear yards and actual interior side
yards, fences shall not exceed six
(6) feet in height and may be open
or solid. The proposed fence is 8 feet
tall. (Filed October 2, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-219: 4754 Broadview
Rd. (Ward 13)
Joniko Enterprises, owner, proposes to establish use as a residential recovery facility for six resi-

The City Record

October 10, 2018
dents in a C1 Local Retail Business
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 357.09(b)(2)(C) which
states that no interior side yard
shall be less than 8 feet and a 2 foot
interior side yard is provided.
2. Section 357.13 which states that
parking in required front setback is
not a permitted front yard encroachment.
3. Section 355.04 which states that
in a “C” Area District the maximum
gross floor area cannot exceed one
half the lot size for a residential
building. 2,680 square foot gross
floor area is permitted and 2,828
gross floor area proposed. (Filed
October 2, 2018)
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2018
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
8, 2018 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 18-192 1322 W. 65th
Street
Peter & Heather McLaughlin, owners, propose to erect a 20' x 49' two
story single family residence with a
20' x 20' detached frame garage in
a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 18-200: 3229 E. 118th
Street
Brian McAfee, owner, proposes to
change use of a 2 dwelling unit
house to a 3 dwelling unit in a B1
Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 18-202: 2030 W. 19th
Street
D.I. Rental LLC., owner, proposes
to expand use to include a residential unit in a C3 Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 18-203 2062 W. 17th
Street
Berges, owner, proposes to erect a
3 story 4,728 square foot single family residence with attached garage
on a 6,135 square foot irregular
shaped lot in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

appeals

were

None
The
following
WITHDRAWN:
None
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
Calendar No. 18-91 Maranatha Bible
College
13701 Kinsman Rd.
Calendar No. 18-180 Dave Kozyk
2338 W. 6th Street

21

Calendar No. 18-201: Lake Cit Dev,
LLC
2825 York Ave.
The following cases were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 18-178 Pango Real
Estate
4219 Orchard Ave. Postponed to
November 5, 2018
Calendar No. 18-204: Stacey Smiley
1856 West 50th Street Postponed to
October 29, 2018
The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
October 1, 2018 and the decisions
were adopted and approved on October 8, 2018:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 18-191 2214 W. 20th
Street
Horton
&
Harper
Architects,
owner, proposes erect a 2 story single family residence with a front
loading attached garage in a B1
Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 18-197: 3449 E. 142th St
Brittany Johnson, owner, proposes
to change use from 2 dwelling units
to 3 dwelling units in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 18-199: 4118 Bridge
Avenue
Scott Francis, owner, proposes to
erect a 12'-10" x 20.5' two story
frame room addition attached to an
existing single family residence in
a Two-Family Residential District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
October 3, 2018
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is given
for publication in the City Record:
*  *  *
Docket A-162-18.
RE: Appeal of Donna M. Sindyla,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence One Story
Frame Garage — Detached; Wood
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 13421 West
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER — GARAGE, dated June 19,
2018 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until November 15, 2018 to
complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned

1697

by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None
*  *  *
Docket A-173-18.
RE:
Appeal
of
Nelly
Kelley,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 4385 West 49th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated July 10, 2018 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the appellant until January 1, 2019 to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None
*  *  *
Docket A-174-18.
RE: Appeal of Hamza Ahmad
Abuhamden, Owner of the Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
1291 Holmden Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
June 6, 2018 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation
Notice
was
properly
issued, and the Appellant’s request
for additional time is DENIED; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None
*  *  *
Docket A-175-18.
RE: Appeal of Elite Crane &
Equipment Services, Inc., Owner of
the Property, located on the premises known as 4190 Bradley Road
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
NO PERMIT, dated July 10, 2018 of
the Director of the Department of
Build-ing and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation
Notice
was
properly
issued, and that the Appellant must
have an engineering study for the
rock installation; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None

The City Record

22
Docket A-176-18.
RE: Appeal of Birnbaum Family
Limited, Owner of the Property,
located on the premises known as
4059 St. Clair Avenue (Aka 4115 St.
Clair Avenue) from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated July 5, 2018 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-176-18 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for October 17, 2018.
*  *  *

Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation
Notice
was
properly
issued, and that the Appellant has
obtained the permits; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None

October 10, 2018
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property to the Department of Building and Housing for supervision and
any required further action, noting
that the Appellant has no plans to
rehabilitate the property. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None
*  *  *

Docket A-177-18.
RE: Appeal of John A. Marinucci,
Owner of the R-4 Residential — Nontransient; Shared Living Areas for 516 Persons Two Story Frame Property, located on the premises known
as 1964 East 126th Street (Aka 1962
East 126th Street) from a NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated July 17, 2018
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation
Notice
was
properly
issued, and that the Appellant’s
request
for
additional
time
is
DENIED; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None

Docket A-181-18.
RE: Appeal of Patricia JonesElder, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Property, located on the premises known
as 7705 Cornelia Avenue (Aka 7701
Cornelia Avenue) from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — NO PERMIT,
dated July 10, 2018 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until April 1, 2019 to
obtain all required permits; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None

Docket A-185-18.
RE: Appeal of Lee A. Martin,
Owner of the M Mercantile — Retail
Shops, Carry-out Food Shops Two
Story Masonry Walls/wood Floors
Property, located on the premises
known as 5509 Outwaite Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
July 13, 2018 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until November 1, 2018 to
obtain all required permits and until
April 1, 2019 to complete abatement
of the violations; the property is
REMANDED at this time to Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None

*  *  *

*  *  *

*  *  *

Docket A-178-18.
RE: Appeal of Earl M. Foster,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 16511 Burnside
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated July 10, 2018
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until December 1, 2018 to
complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None

Docket A-182-18.
RE: Appeal of James W. Corbett
Jr., Owner of the One Dwelling Unit
Single-Family
Residence
One
&
One/half Story Garage — Detached;
Wood Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 3942 West
130th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE DAMAGE, dated
July 10, 2018 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until April 1, 2019 to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned
by
Mr.
Maschke
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke Nays: None

Docket A-186-18.
RE: Appeal of Entry Point Development, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
1295 Holmden Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 1, 2018
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-186-18 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for October 17, 2018.

*  *  *

*  *  *
*  *  *
Docket A-180-18.
RE: Appeal of RSN Holdings I,
LLC, Owner of the R-4 Residential
—
Non-transient;
Apartments
(Shared Egress) Two Story Masonry Walls/Wood Floors Property,
located on the premises known as
17568 Lakeshore Boulevard (Aka
17570 Lakeshore Boulevard) from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE
DAMAGE, dated July 5, 2018 of the

Docket A-184-18.
RE: Appeal of Maurice K. Smith,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 12006 Angelus
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated June 19, 2018 of the Director
of the Department of Building and

1698

*  *  *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-154-18
A-155-18
A-156-18
A-157-18
A-158-18
A-159-18
A-161-18
A-163-18
A-165-18

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

Karen Meske
Allen Settles
Janice Z. Streeter
RSN Holdings I, LLC
Persid Perez
Timothy Walker
Ann Y. Goens
Clinton Marbury
Darnell Davis

The City Record

October 10, 2018
A-167-18 — The Church In Cleveland
A-169-18 — Barbara Taylor
A-170-18 — Cleveland-OH R-0009

CITY of CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke Nays: None Not
Voting: Mr. Saab
*  *  *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
September 19, 2018
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke Nays: None Not
Voting: Mr. Saab
*  *  *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On Development, Planning
and Sustainability
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Tuesday, October 16, 2018
9:30 a.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217,
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on Tuesday, October 16, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to
consider the following ordinances
and resolutions now pending in the
Council:
Ord. No. 887-18.
By Council Member Brancatelli
(by departmental request).
An ordinance to amend Sections
325.03, 337.23, 343.23, 357.09, and
357.13 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by various ordinances, relating to
side yard setbacks, parking spaces
sizes, residential garage placement
and size, and conditional uses in the
Pedestrian Retail Overlay; and to
supplement the codified ordinances
by enacting new Section 325.431
relating to the definition of Lot Interior.
Anthony Brancatelli, Chair
Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability
October 3, 2018 and October 10, 2018

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
File No. 119-18 — Greenwood Park Pool
House Renovations (Re-Bid), for
the Division of Architecture and Site
Development, Mayor’s Office of
Capital Projects, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 549-17, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 5, 2017.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
OR
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH, AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS. ALL PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
MUST
BE
PURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM THE
DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND
SUPPLIES. BIDDERS MUST BE
ON PLAN-HOLDERS LIST TO
SUBMIT A BID OR RECEIVED
ADDENDUMS.)
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2018
AT 11:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114, ROOM
517A.

1699

23
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12
O’CLOCK
NOON
(EASTERN
TIME).
October 3, 2018 and October 10, 2018
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
File No. 120-18 — Upper Level
Expansion Joints Rehabilitation
Phase 2 (Re-Bid), for the Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
as authorized by Ordinance No. 27405, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, May 2, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT
OF
ONE-HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR MONEY ORDER (NO
COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH,
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE
PLANS. ALL PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
MUST
BE
PURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM THE
DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND
SUPPLIES. BIDDERS MUST BE
ON PLAN-HOLDERS LIST TO
SUBMIT A BID OR RECEIVED
ADDENDUMS.)
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2018
AT 10:30 A.M. HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT,
3501
WEST HANGAR ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135, PLANNING
AND ENGINEERING BUILDING,
ROOM 6C-24C.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12
O’CLOCK
NOON
(EASTERN
TIME).
October 3, 2018 and October 10, 2018
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2018
File No. 121-18 — Music Hall
Improvements Roof Repairs (ReBid),
for
the
Division
of
Architecture and Site Development,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects,
as authorized by Ordinance No. 73314, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 9, 2014.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT
OF
TWENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH, AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS. ALL PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
MUST
BE
PURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM THE
DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND
SUPPLIES. BIDDERS MUST BE
ON PLAN-HOLDERS LIST TO
SUBMIT A BID OR RECEIVED
ADDENDUMS.)

The City Record

24
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2018
AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114, ROOM
517A.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12
O’CLOCK
NOON
(EASTERN
TIME).
October 10, 2018 and October 17, 2018
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
File No. 122-18 — 2019 Uniform Clothing
Supplies, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Section 135.06 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018
AT
10:00
A.M.
CLEVELAND
POLICE HEADQUARTERS, 7TH
FLOOR, 1300 ONTARIO STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12
O’CLOCK
NOON
(EASTERN
TIME).
October 10, 2018 and October 17, 2018

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1224-18.
By Council Member J. Jones.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
3984 Lee Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New C1
Liquor Permit at Lee Harvard, Inn.,
DBA, Lee Harvard Convenient, 3984
Lee Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44128,
Permit Number 5088080; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

October 10, 2018
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Lee Harvard, Inn.,
DBA, Lee Harvard Convenient, 3984
Lee Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44128,
Permit
Number
5088080;
and
requests
the
Superintendent
of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1027-18.
By Council Member McCormack.
An ordinance changing the Use, Height and Area Districts of parcels fronting the northwestern section of
Franklin Circle between Dexter Place and West 28th Street as identified on the attached map (Map Change No.
2587).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of Franklin Boulevard and West 28th Street;
Thence westerly along the centerline of Franklin Boulevard to its intersection with the southerly prolongation
of the easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Robin J. Davenport and Scott P. Francis by deed dated December 5, 2005 and recorded in Cuyahoga County Auditor File Number 200512050381 also known as Cuyahoga County permanent parcel number 003-27-034;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Lutheran Medical Center by deed dated February 27, 1989 and recorded in Cuyahoga County Auditor
File Number V89909150009 also known as Cuyahoga County permanent parcel number 003-27-029;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the centerline of Dexter Place;
Thence northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the northerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Urban Properties Group LLC by deed dated November 18, 2003 and recorded in
Cuyahoga County Auditor File Number V 200311180943 also known as Cuyahoga County permanent parcel number 003-27-026;
Thence easterly along said irregular northerly line to its intersection with the centerline of W. 28th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to the place of origin;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to an ‘Local Retail District’ District, a ‘H’ Area District
and a ‘2’ Height District;
Section 2. Apply the Urban Form Overlay along the Franklin Ave and West 28th Street frontages for the parcels
described in Section 1 (one) of this ordinance and as shown on the attached map.
Section 3. In accordance with Section 333.02 of the Cleveland Zoning Code, within a period of six (6) months
from the effective date of this zoning map amendment or within such extension period approved by the Planning
Commission, the only allowable building permits issued for the property described in Section 1 of this legislation
shall be for the construction of the Development as presented in the attached Approved Site Development Plan.
Section 4. The Approved Site Development Plan, not the underlying zoning, establishes the number of parking
spaces for the development. In perpetuity, the total number of parking spaces required for the property described
in Section 1 of this legislation shall not be required to exceed the number of spaces in the Approved Site Development Plan.

1700

October 10, 2018

The City Record

25

Section 5. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2587, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk
of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for
this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 6. In accordance with Section 333.02 of the Cleveland Zoning Code, if a building permit for such Development is not issued within six (6) months from the effective date of this zoning map amendment or within such
extension period approved by the Planning Commission, this zoning map amendment approval shall be void and
the zoning shall revert to the classifications that existed prior to the approval of this zoning map amendment.
Section 7. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

1701

26

The City Record

1702

October 10, 2018

October 10, 2018

The City Record

1703

27

28

The City Record

1704

October 10, 2018

October 10, 2018

The City Record

1705

29

The City Record

30

Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 31, 2018.

1706

October 10, 2018

October 10, 2018
Ord. No. 1031-18.
By Council Members Zone, Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute deeds of easement granting
to The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan
Park
District
certain
easement
rights in properties located north
and south of Whiskey Island Drive;
declaring that the easement rights
granted are not needed for public
use; and authorizing the director to
enter into one or more agreements
with the Cleveland Metroparks to
construct and maintain a portion of
the Whiskey Island Connector on
City property.
Whereas, The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District (“Cleveland
Metroparks”) has received funding
from numerous sources to construct
and maintain the Whiskey Island
Connector, which will connect Edgewater
Park
and
Wendy
Park/Whiskey Island, and connect
to the new Wendy Park Bridge and
the larger trail network including
the Towpath Trail; and
Whereas, in order to construct the
Whiskey Island Connector, it is necessary
that
the
Cleveland
Metroparks obtain permanent, nonexclusive easements on properties
adjoining Whiskey Island Drive
and/or
property
interests
in
Whiskey Island Drive; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are not needed for the
City’s public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that easement interests in the
following described properties are
not needed for the City’s public use:
Whiskey Island Connector
Trail Easement – East
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
50, also being part of land described
in deed to the City of Cleveland,
recorded in Volume 659, Page 145,
and further described as follows:
Commencing at a 5/8" iron pin
found at the most northerly corner
of Whiskey Island Drive (25 feet
wide), recorded in Plat Volume 240,
Page 92, also being a southwesterly
corner of land described in deed to
the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port
Authority (“CCCPA”), recorded in
Volume 97-02331, Page 56, also being
the most westerly corner of Easement Parcel No. 4 described in deed
to the Board of Park Commissioners
of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park
District,
recorded
in
AFN
201703200362; Thence North 62° 18'
19" East, 54.07 feet along the southeasterly line of said CCCPA land
and the northwesterly line of said
Easement Parcel No. 4 to a southerly corner of said CCCPA land, also
being in the southwesterly line of
said City of Cleveland land and the
Point of Beginning;

The City Record
1) Thence North 34° 20' 05" West,
4.21 feet along the southwesterly
line of said City of Cleveland Land
and the southeasterly line of said
CCCPA land to a 5/8" iron pin with
illegible cap found at the northwesterly corner of said City of
Cleveland land;
2) Thence North 54° 40' 33" East,
99.93 feet along the northwesterly
line of said City of Cleveland land
and the southeasterly line of said
CCCPA land to a stone with drill
hole found at the northeasterly corner of said City of Cleveland land;
3) Thence South 35° 21' 48" East,
10.89 feet along the northeasterly
line of said City of Cleveland land
and the southeasterly line of said
CCCPA land to a 5/8" iron pin found
at a southeasterly corner of said
CCCPA land, also being in the northwesterly line of said Easement Parcel No. 4;
4) Thence South 50° 05' 24" West,
31.50 feet along the northwesterly
line of said Easement Parcel No. 4;
5) Thence South 62° 18' 19" West,
69.22 feet along the northwesterly
line of said Easement Parcel No. 4
to the Point of Beginning and containing
986
square
feet
(0.0226
acres).
This description was prepared
from record information and from a
field survey completed in July 2014
by Jarrod R. Schnell, PS#8623, for
Cleveland Metroparks. The bearings
are based on State Plane Coordinate
Grid, Ohio North 1983 (2011), derived
from GPS observations. References
to recorded documents are those of
the Cuyahoga County Recorder’s
Office.
Whiskey Island Connector
Trail Easement – West
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
50, also being part of vacated West
58th Street (66 feet wide, formerly
known as Waverly Avenue), vacated by City of Cleveland Ordinance
No. 26417, passed October 30, 1899,
also being part of land conveyed to
the City of Cleveland, and further
described as follows:
Beginning at a Drill Hole with “X”
found in a concrete retaining wall
in the southerly line of Whiskey
Island Drive (25 feet wide), as
shown
by
the
Dedication
Map
recorded in Plat Volume 240, Page
92;
1) Thence northeasterly along the
southeasterly line of said Whiskey
Island Drive, 85.78 feet along the arc
of a curve to the left, said arc having a radius of 5649.65 feet, central
angle 0° 52' 12", chord bearing
North 61° 00' 39" East, 85.78 feet, to
a northwesterly corner of Norfolk
Southern Railway Company land;
2) Thence South 29° 25' 27" East,
30.00 feet along the southwesterly
line of said Norfolk Southern Railway Company land;
3) Thence southwesterly along the
northwesterly line of said Norfolk
Southern Railway Company land,
106.64 feet along the arc of a curve
to the right, said arc having a
radius of 5679.65 feet, central angle
1° 04' 33", chord bearing South 61°
06' 50" West, 106.64 feet to a point
of compound curvature;
4) Thence westerly 129.00 feet
along the arc of a curve to the right,
said arc having a radius of 179.71

1707

31
feet, central angle 41° 07' 44", chord
bearing North 89° 22' 42" West,
126.25 feet, to the southerly extension of the westerly line of said
Whiskey Island Drive;
5) Thence North 00° 31' 34" West,
33.08 feet along the southerly extension of the westerly line of said
Whiskey Island Drive to the southwesterly corner of said Whiskey
Island Drive;
6) Thence easterly along the
southerly line of said Whiskey
Island Drive, 135.42 feet along the
arc of a curve to the left, said arc
having a radius of 139.34 feet, central angle 55° 40' 57", chord bearing
North 89° 17' 11" East, 130.15 feet,
to the Point of Beginning and containing 6,872 square feet (0.1578
acres.)
This description was prepared
from record information and from a
field survey completed in July 2014
by Jarrod R. Schnell, PS#8623, for
Cleveland Metroparks. The bearings
are based on State Plane Coordinate
Grid, Ohio North 1983 (2011), derived
from GPS observations. References
to recorded documents are those of
the Cuyahoga County Recorder’s
Office.
Section 2. That, by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described easement interests
to Cleveland Metroparks subject to
any conditions stated in this ordinance. The consideration to be paid
for the properties shall not exceed
$1.00 and other valuable consideration, which is determined to be fair
market value.
Section 3. That the easements
shall be non-exclusive and the purpose of the easements shall be to
allow Cleveland Metroparks to construct and maintain the Whiskey
Island Connector which will provide
access between Edgewater Park and
Wendy Park/Whiskey Island and
will connect to a new Wendy Park
Bridge and the larger trail network
that includes the Towpath Trail.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easements shall be perpetual; that
the easements shall not be assignable without the consent of the Director of Public Works; that the easements shall require that Cleveland
Metroparks
provide
reasonable
insurance or self-insurance; maintain
any
Cleveland
Metroparks
improvements located within the
easements; and pay any applicable
taxes and assessments; and that the
easements shall contain such other
terms and conditions that the Director of Law determines to be necessary to protect and benefit the City.
Section 5. That the conveyances
referenced above shall be made by
official deeds of easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Works
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The Directors of Public Works and
Law are authorized to execute any
other documents, including without
limitation, contracts for right of
entry, as may be necessary to effect
this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and maintain a portion of the
Whiskey Island connector on City
property.

32
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1032-18.
By Council Members McCormack,
Cleveland, Brancatelli and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts
with the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority to provide technical assistance and to procure a comprehensive maritime infrastructure
assessment of the City-owned properties commonly known as Docks
28b, 30, 32 and the North Coast Harbor.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority to provide technical assistance and to procure a comprehensive maritime infrastructure assessment of the City-owned properties
commonly known as Docks 28b, 30,
32 and the North Coast Harbor.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract shall not exceed $115,000 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 10 SF
113, RQS 3002, RL 2018-89.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1039-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to exercise the first options to
renew various contracts for the
requirements for labor and materials for maintenance of backup generator power supply systems including motors, generators and appurtenances and for diesel filtration, testing and maintenance program for
off-road diesel storage tanks, for the
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 704-16, passed July 13,
2016, the Director of Public Utilities
entered into Contract Nos. MA 1505
RC 2017-005 with Ohio Machinery Co.
dba Ohio CAT and MA 1505 RC 2017035 with Warner Diesel Filtration;
and

The City Record
Whereas, Ordinance No. 704-16
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on these contracts; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
exercise the first option to renew on
Contract Nos. MA 1505 RC 2017-005
with Ohio Machinery Co. dba Ohio
CAT and MA 1505 RC 2017-035 with
Warner Diesel Filtration in the total
approximate amount of $175,000 for
the requirements for maintenance of
backup generator power supply systems including motors, generators
and appurtenances and for diesel filtration, testing and maintenance
program for off-road diesel storage
tanks, for the Department of Public
Utilities. That this ordinance constitutes
the
additional
legislative
authority required by Ordinance No.
704-16 to exercise these options.
(RQN 2002, RL 2018-23)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1040-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. MA 1505 RC 2017-19
with Underwater Marine Contractors, Inc. to provide for diving and
underwater inspection services.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 659-16, passed July 13,
2016, the Director of Public Utilities
entered into Contract No. MA 1505
RC 2017-19 with Underwater Marine
Contractors, Inc. to provide for diving and underwater inspection services; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 659-16
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. MA 1505 RC 2017-19 for
an additional year with Underwater
Marine Contractors, Inc. for the
requirements for an additional year
to provide for diving and underwater inspection services. This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required by Ordinance No. 659-16 to exercise this
option. (RQN 2002, RL 2018-25)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

1708

October 10, 2018
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1041-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to make alterations and modifications in Contract No. PI 2017-42 with
KMU Trucking & Excavating, Inc.
for
the
Thrush
Avenue
sewer
replacement project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make the following alterations and
modifications in Contract No. PI
2017-42 with KMU Trucking & Excavating, Inc. for the Thrush Avenue
sewer replacement project:
Subsidiary Additions – New Items
The Department of Public Utilities, Division of Water Pollution
Control
entered
into
a
public
improvement contract with KMU
Trucking & Excavating, Inc. to
replace a main sewer line and new
sewer house connections on Thrush
Avenue between West 117th Street
and Bosworth Avenue in the City of
Cleveland. The pavement cannot be
replaced in the sewer trench only as
originally envisioned. Due to the
deterioration in the existing pavement and underground issues, it
became necessary to do full width
replacement of the pavement. The
work will also include curbs and
aprons replacement due to the disturbance and grade requirements
necessitated by the new pavement.
Total Additions – New Items
$ 502,310.41
TOTAL SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS
$ 502,310.41
Original Contract Amount
$ 767,321.50
Total Subsidiary Additions
502,310.41
New Contract Amount
$1,269,631.91
which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director
of Public Utilities, countersigned by
the Mayor, and consented to by the
surety on the contract. The price to
be paid for the alterations and modifications to the contract has been
agreed upon in writing and signed
by the Director of Public Utilities
and the contractor. This alteration
will
cause
an
increase
in
the
amount of the original contract in
the sum of $502,310.41 to be paid
from Fund No. 54 SF 400. (RQS 2003,
RL 2018-66)

October 10, 2018
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1044-18.
By Council Members McCormack,
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to execute a deed of easement and
a deed of temporary easement granting to The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District certain easement
rights in property needed for the
Wendy Park Bridge Project; declaring the easement rights not needed
for the City’s public use; and authorizing the director to enter into one
or more agreements with the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and
maintain a portion of the Wendy
Park Bridge on City property.
Whereas, The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District (“Cleveland
Metroparks”)
has
requested
the
Director of Capital Projects to convey certain easement rights and
temporary easement rights in property needed for the Wendy Park
Bridge Project; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that a permanent easement
interest located over a portion of
Permanent Parcel No. 003-05-011 and
further described as follows and is
not needed for the City’s public use:
City of Cleveland
Permanent Easement Parcel 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 51, also
being
known
as
part
of
land
described in deed to the City of
Cleveland, recorded in Volume 659,
Page 209, Cuyahoga County Deed
Records and described as follows:
Commencing at the northwesterly
corner of relocated Salt Road N.W.
(width varies), recorded in Volume
198, Page 51, Cuyahoga County Map
Records; Thence South 12° 16' 40"
West, 21.80 feet along the westerly
line of said relocated Salt Road
N.W.; Thence South 71° 35' 34" East,
134.91 feet along the southerly line
of said relocated Salt Road N.W. to
the northwesterly corner of Salt
Road N.W. (width varies), recorded
in Volume 190, Page 59, Cuyahoga
County Map Records; Thence South
18° 24' 10" West, 49.85 feet along
the westerly line of said Salt Road
N.W. to the northerly line of said

The City Record
City of Cleveland land and the Point
of Beginning;
1) Thence North 71° 45' 32" East,
16.18 feet along the northerly line of
said City of Cleveland land and the
southerly line of said Salt Road
N.W.;
2) Thence South 01° 17' 08" West,
23.85 feet to a point of curvature;
3) Thence southwesterly 46.65 feet
along the arc of a curve to the right,
said arc having a radius of 57.00
feet, central angle 46° 53' 28", chord
bearing South 24° 43' 52" West,
45.36 feet;
4) Thence South 18° 24' 10" W,
about 21.48 feet to the waters edge
of the old channel of the Cuyahoga
River;
5) Thence S 82° 11' 51" W, about
8.38 feet along the waters edge of
the old channel of the Cuyahoga
River;
6) Thence S 57° 44' 57" W, about
11.80 feet along the waters edge of
the old channel of the Cuyahoga
River;
7) Thence North 18° 24' 10" East,
92.52 feet along the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of Parcel No. 3-A, described in deed to the
Ontario Stone Corporation, recorded
in Volume 14625, Page 851, Cuyahoga County Deed Records and
along the easterly line of said Parcel No 3-A, also being the westerly
line of said City of Cleveland land,
to the Point of Beginning and containing 1,643 square feet (0.0377
acres).
This description was prepared
from record information and from a
field survey completed in January
2018 by Cleveland Metroparks. The
bearings are based on State Plane
Coordinate Grid, Ohio North 1983
(2011), derived from GPS observations.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that a temporary easement
interest located over Permanent Parcel
No.
003-05-011
and
further
described as follows is not needed
for the City’s public use:
City of Cleveland
Wendy Park Bridge
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 51, also
being
known
as
part
of
land
described in deed to the City of
Cleveland, recorded in Volume 659,
Page 209, and further described as
follows:
Commencing at the northwesterly
corner of relocated Salt Road N.W.
(width varies), recorded in Plat Volume 198, Page 51; Thence South 12°
16' 40" West, 21.80 feet along the
westerly line of said relocated Salt
Road N.W.; Thence South 71° 35' 34"
East, 134.91 feet along the southerly line of said relocated Salt Road
N.W. to the northwesterly corner of
Salt Road N.W. (width varies),
recorded in Plat Volume 190, Page
59; Thence South 18° 24' 10" West,
49.85 feet along the westerly line of
said Salt Road N.W. to the northerly line of said City of Cleveland
land and the Point of Beginning;
1) Thence North 71° 45' 32" East,
43.67 feet along the northerly line of
said City of Cleveland land and the
southerly line of said Salt Road
N.W. to a point of curvature;

1709

33
2) Thence southeasterly along the
northerly line of said City of Cleveland land and the southwesterly line
of said Salt Road N.W., 35.69 feet
along the arc of a curve to the right,
said arc having a radius of 20.00
feet, central angle 102° 14' 49",
chord bearing South 57° 07' 22"
East, 31.14 feet;
3) Thence South 06° 00' 15" East,
20.60 feet along the easterly line of
said City of Cleveland land and the
westerly line of said Salt Road N.W.
to the westerly line of Willow
Avenue N.W. (50 feet wide);
4) Thence South 18° 24' 10" West,
29.81 feet along the westerly line of
said Willow Avenue to the waters
edge of the old channel of the Cuyahoga River;
Thence southwesterly along the
waters edge of the old channel of
the Cuyahoga River, the following
four courses:
5) South 87° 11' 47" West, 33.92
feet;
6) South 19° 34' 36" West, 11.92
feet;
7) South 58° 41' 15" West, 27.02
feet;
8) South 82° 14' 31" West, 19.35
feet;
9) Thence North 71° 35' 34" West,
7.00 feet to the westerly line of said
City of Cleveland land, also being
the easterly line of Parcel No. 3-A
described in deed to the Ontario
Stone Corporation, recorded in Volume 14625, Page 851;
10) Thence North 18° 24' 10" East,
83.62 feet along the westerly line of
said City of Cleveland land and the
easterly line of said Parcel No 3-A
to the Point of Beginning and containing 5,621 square feet (0.1290
acres).
This description was prepared
from record information and from a
field survey completed in January
2018 by Jarrod R. Schnell, PS#8623,
for Cleveland Metroparks. The bearings are based on State Plane Coordinate Grid, Ohio North 1983 (2011),
derived from GPS observations. References to recorded documents are
those
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Recorder’s Office.
Section 3. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described non-exclusive permanent easement interest and the
non-exclusive temporary easement
interest as described in Sections 1
and 2 to Cleveland Metroparks at a
price of $1.00 and other valuable
consideration, which is determined
to be fair market value.
Section 4. That the purpose of the
easements shall be to construct the
Wendy Park Bridge and to perform
future maintenance on the project
site.
Section 5. That the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to convey additional permanent and temporary easements over
portions of PPN 003-05-011 to Cleveland Metroparks for the Wendy
Park Bridge Project if the Director
of Capital Projects determines that
additional or relocated easements
are needed for the project or Cleveland Metroparks’ maintenance of
City’s property.
Section 6. That the duration of the
permanent easement shall be perpetual; that the duration of the temporary easement shall be until the

34
Wendy Park Bridge is completed;
that the permanent easement and
temporary easement may include
reasonable right of entry rights to
the City; that the easement and temporary easement shall not be assignable without the consent of the
Director of Capital Projects; that the
permanent easement and temporary
easement shall require that Cleveland Metroparks or its contractor
provide reasonable insurance, and
pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 7. That the conveyances
referred to above shall be made by
official deed of easement and official deed of temporary easement
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Director of Capital
Projects on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed of easement
and the deed of temporary easement
shall contain any additional terms
and conditions as are required to
protect the interest of the City within the bounds of the easement. The
Directors of Capital Projects and
Law are authorized to execute any
other documents, including without
limitation, contracts for right of
entry, as may be necessary to effect
this ordinance.
Section 8. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
enter into one or more agreements
with the Cleveland Metroparks to
construct and maintain a portion of
the Wendy Park Bridge on City
property.
Section 9. That by and at the
Director of the Board of Control, and
upon
documents
prepared
and
approved by the Director of Law
and executed by the Director of Capital Projects, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to convey easement interests,
temporary or permanent, over other
portions of Permanent Parcel No.
003-05-011, at a cost of $1.00 and
other
valuable
consideration,
if
needed for the construction, maintenance or operation of the Wendy
Park Bridge, this Council having
determined that such property interests are not needed for the City’s
public use.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1046-18.
By Council Members McCormack,
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to enter into maintenance, inspection and repair agreement with and
to issue a permit to The Board of
Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District to
encroach into the public rights-ofway of Salt Road and Riverbed
Street by installing, using and maintaining the Wendy Park Bridge and
an asphalt all-purpose trail.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
enter into a maintenance, inspection
and repair agreement with and to
issue a permit, revocable at the will
of Council, to The Board of Park
Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District, 1410 Fulton
Parkway, Cleveland, OH 44144 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the public
rights-of-way of Salt Road and
Riverbed Street by installing, using
and maintaining the Wendy Park
Bridge and an asphalt all-purpose
trail, at the following location:
City of Cleveland
Wendy Park Bridge
Encroachment Permit
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 51, also
being known as part of Salt Road
N.W. (width varies), dedicated and
relocated as shown by maps recorded in Plat Volume 190, Page 59, Plat
Volume 195, Page 74, and Plat Volume 198, Page 51, also being part of
Riverbed Street N.W. (40 feet wide),
and further described as follows:
Beginning at the northwesterly
corner of said Salt Road N.W., as
recorded in Plat Volume 198, Page
51;
1) Thence North 08° 48' 30" East,
40.00 feet along the westerly line of
said Riverbed Street N.W., also
being the easterly line of vacated
Riverbed Street N.W. (80 feet wide)
as described in City of Cleveland
Ordinance No. 2735-53, to the southwesterly corner of Ontario Stone
Corporation land described in Deed
Volume 94-06475, Page 32;
2) Thence South 81° 11' 30" East,
30.65 feet along the southerly line of
said Ontario Stone Corporation land;
3) Thence South 40° 07' 41" East,
80.29 feet;
4) Thence South 79° 09' 24" East,
47.45 feet;
5) Thence South 69° 40' 17" East,
11.31 feet to a point of curvature;
6) Thence southeasterly, 69.91 feet
along the arc of a curve to the right,
said arc having a radius of 63.00
feet, central angle of 63° 34' 57",
chord bearing South 36° 48' 49"
East, 66.38 feet;
7) Thence South 82° 40' 27" West,
4.80 feet;
8) Thence South 12° 50' 57" East,
9.85 feet;
9) Thence South 83° 44' 04" West,
11.66 feet to the westerly line of said
Salt Road N.W.;
10) Thence northwesterly along
the southerly line of said Salt Road
N.W., 24.30 feet along the arc of a
curve to the left, said arc having a
radius of 20.00 feet, central angle
69° 36' 18", chord bearing North 73°
25' 04" West, 22.83 feet;
11) Thence South 71° 45' 32"
West, 43.67 feet along the southeasterly line of said Salt Road N.W.;
12) Thence North 18° 24' 10" East,
49.85 feet along the westerly line of
said Salt Road N.W.;
13) Thence North 71° 35' 34"
West, 134.91 feet along the southwesterly line of said Salt Road N.W.;

1710

October 10, 2018
14) Thence North 12° 16' 40" East,
21.80 feet along the westerly line of
said Salt Road N.W. to the Point of
Beginning
and
containing
9,349
square feet (0.2146 acres).
This description was prepared
from record information and from a
field survey completed in January
2018 by Jarrod R. Schnell, PS#8623,
for Cleveland Metroparks. The bearings are based on State Plane Coordinate Grid, Ohio North 1983 (2011),
derived from GPS observations. References to recorded documents are
those
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Recorder’s Office.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the agreement and/or permit
only with the prior written consent
of the Director of Capital Projects.
That the encroaching structure(s)
permitted under this ordinance shall
conform to plans and specifications
first approved by the Manager of
Engineering and Construction. That
Permittee shall obtain all other
required permits, including but not
limited to Building Permits, before
installing the encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the agreement
and permit authorized by this ordinance and shall incorporate such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The agreement and/or permit shall
be issued only when, in the opinion
of the Director of Law, Permittee
has properly protected the City
against loss that may result from
Permittee’s acts or omissions under
an agreement and/or permit or from
the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the agreement
and/or permit shall reserve to the
City right of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1047-18.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to
issue
a
permit
to
Western
Reserve
Historical
Society/Cleveland History Center to encroach into
the public rights-of-way of East
108th Street and East Boulevard by
installing, using, and maintaining
lighting, underground electrical conduit and sidewalk pavers.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
issue a permit, revocable at the will

October 10, 2018
of Council, to the Western Reserve
Historical Society/Cleveland History
Center, 10825 East Blvd., Cleveland,
Ohio
44106
(“Permittee”),
to
encroach into the public rights-ofway of East 108th Street and East
Boulevard by installing, using, and
maintaining lighting, underground
electrical
conduit
and
sidewalk
pavers at the following location:
Northeast corner of intersection of
East 108th Street and East Boulevard as shown on the map placed in
File No. 1047-18-A.
Section 2. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the Director of Law determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The permit
shall be issued only when, in the
opinion of the Director of Law, the
prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any
loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 3. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of
Capital
Projects.
That
the
encroaching structure(s) permitted
by this ordinance shall conform to
plans
and
specifications
first
approved by the Manager of the
City’s Division of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1048-18.
By Council Members Griffin, Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to issue a permit to Case Western
Reserve University to encroach into
the public rights-of-way of Euclid
Avenue, East 115th Street, and East
116th Street by installing, using, and
maintaining fiber optic duct banks.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
issue a permit, revocable at the will
of Council, to Case Western Reserve
University, 10900 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106 (“Permittee”),
to encroach into the public rights-ofway beneath Euclid Avenue, East
115th Street, and East 116th Street
by installing, using, and maintaining fiber optic duct banks, at the
following locations:

The City Record
Right of Way Encroachments
1 thru 21
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being a part of the
right of way of East 101st Street,
East 115th Street, East 116th Place
and Euclid Avenue, also part of the
lands conveyed to the City of Cleveland;
Encroachment Parts 1, 11, 12, 14,
16, 17, 18 and 20, being described by
a centerline, with a width of 7.5 feet
on each side of said centerline,
except where the distance to the
original or extended right of way of
Euclid Avenue, East 101st Street,
East 115th Street or East 116th
Place is less than 7.5 feet away from
the right of way line, in which case
the right of way line shall prevail;
ENCROACHMENT 1
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of East 123rd Street
(40 feet wide) and the centerline of
Euclid Avenue (80 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, North 42° 54' 36"
East 256.45 feet to an iron pin in a
monument box found at an angle
point therein;
Thence, continuing along the centerline of Euclid Avenue, North 37°
02' 22" East, 466.20 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 52° 56' 51" West, 40.00 feet to
the northwesterly right of way line
of Euclid Avenue and the True
Point of Beginning for a 15 foot
wide easement, 7.5 feet on each side
of the following described centerline;
Thence, leaving said northwesterly right of way, South 52° 56' 51"
East, 5.49 feet to a point;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 11.02
feet to a point, said curve having a
radius of 10.61 feet, a central angle
of 59° 29' 43", and a chord of 10.53
feet which bears South 25° 00' 55"
East;
Thence South 37° 04' 17" West,
408.27 feet to a point;
Thence South 39° 28' 25" West,
76.47 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 32' 28" West,
105.16 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 37' 52" West,
91.64 feet to a point;
Thence South 44° 00' 30" West,
77.24 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 02' 17" West,
88.20 feet to a point;
Thence South 45° 11' 37" West,
65.06 feet to a point;
Thence South 55° 19' 00" West,
46.69 feet to a point;
Thence South 08° 18' 17" West,
52.46 feet to a point;
Thence South 34° 51' 32" West,
30.38 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 11' 06" West,
493.84 feet to a point;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 4.75 feet
to a point, said curve having a
radius of 5.00 feet, a central angle
of 54° 24' 17", and a chord of 4.57
feet which bears South 70° 23' 14"
West;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the left, 33.71 feet
to a point, said curve having a
radius of 48.06 feet, a central angle
of 40° 11' 12", and a chord of 33.02
feet which bears South 78° 41' 25"
West;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the left, 22.98 feet

1711

35
to a point, said curve having a
radius of 224.52 feet, a central angle
of 05° 51' 51", and a chord of 22.97
feet which bears South 53° 36' 08"
West;
Thence South 46° 38' 39" West,
5.94 feet to a point;
Thence South 35° 13' 29" West,
26.30 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 26' 19" West,
178.08 feet to a point;
Thence South 40° 34' 01" West,
143.75 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 37' 52" West,
79.91 feet to a point;
Thence South 54° 09' 43" West,
11.68 feet to a point;
Thence South 45° 30' 55" West,
55.57 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 10' 40" West,
60.69 feet to a point;
Thence South 40° 45' 07" West,
33.84 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 52' 57" West,
75.01 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 36' 51" West,
62.55 feet to a point;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 6.50 feet
to a point, said curve having a
radius of 17.20 feet, a central angle
of 21° 38' 27", and a chord of 6.46
feet which bears South 54° 26' 04"
West;
Thence South 70° 59' 53" West,
47.45 feet to a point;
Thence North 83° 34' 31" West,
14.56 feet to a point;
Thence South 30° 41' 21" East,
13.72 feet to a point;
Thence South 21° 43' 53" East,
7.13 feet to a point;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 8.29 feet
to a point, said curve having a
radius of 21.62 feet, a central angle
of 21° 57' 22", and a chord of 8.23
feet which bears South 33° 00' 08"
West;
Thence South 42° 21' 55" West,
81.14 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 49' 03" West,
574.07 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 33' 42" West,
69.12 feet to a point;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 7.79 feet
to a point, said curve having a
radius of 5.08 feet, a central angle
of 87° 54' 14", and a chord of 7.05
feet which bears South 87° 30' 49"
West;
Thence North 45° 49' 17" West,
5.83 feet to a point;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 27.41
feet to a point, said curve having a
radius of 30.68 feet, a central angle
of 51° 10' 50", and a chord of 26.50
feet which bears South 03° 00' 19"
West;
Thence South 31° 48' 18" West,
21.04 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 47' 19" West,
156.29 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 27' 17" West,
43.53 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 26' 22" West,
28.83 feet to a point;
Thence South 45° 55' 45" West,
134.13 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 54' 20" West,
29.17 feet to a point;
Thence South 32° 04' 05" West,
12.68 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 54' 20" West,
211.11 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 55' 11" West,
248.17 feet to a point;
Thence South 59° 59' 56" West,
11.38 feet to a point;

36
Thence South 42° 56' 35" West,
51.39 feet to a point;
Thence South 33° 47' 42" West,
33.63 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 55' 21" West,
227.98 feet to a point;
Thence South 46° 23' 41" West,
104.08 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 38' 31" West,
40.33 feet to a point;
Thence South 22° 41' 00" West,
15.66 feet to a point;
Thence South 40° 40' 54" West,
78.91 feet to a point;
Thence South 44° 32' 31" West,
20.23 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 58' 07" West,
136.69 feet to a point;
Thence South 45° 31' 31" West,
52.99 feet to a point;
Thence South 52° 17' 23" West,
25.64 feet to a point;
Thence South 44° 05' 58" West,
71.24 feet to the termination point in
the southeasterly prolongation of
the southwesterly right of way of
East Boulevard (83 feet wide).
ENCROACHMENT 2
Commencing at a drill hole in a
stone in a monument box found at
the intersection of the centerline of
Adelbert Street (60 feet wide) and
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(width varies);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, North 42° 54' 13"
East, 19.53 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 47° 05' 40" West, 45.41 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence, continuing North 47° 05'
40" West, 4.59 feet to a point on the
northwesterly right of way line of
Euclid Avenue;
Thence, along said northwesterly
right of way, North 42° 54' 13" East,
10.00 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said northwesterly right of way, South 47° 05' 40"
East, 4.20 feet to a point;
Thence South 40° 40' 54" West,
10.01 feet to the True Point of
Beginning.
Containing within said bounds 44
square feet of land.
ENCROACHMENT 3
Commencing at a drill hole in a
stone in a monument box found at
the intersection of the centerline of
Adelbert Street (60 feet wide) and
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(width varies);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, North 42° 54' 13"
East, 270.56 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 47° 05' 40" West, 45.51 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence North 47° 04' 39" West,
6.52 feet to a point;
Thence North 42° 55' 21" East,
10.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 47° 04' 39" East,
6.52 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 55' 21" West,
10.00 feet to the True Point of
Beginning.
Containing within said bounds 65
square feet of land.
ENCROACHMENT 4
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Ford Drive (width
varies) and the centerline of Euclid
Avenue (width varies), said point
being South 47° 07' 12" East, 0.07
feet from an iron pin in a monument

The City Record
box found in the centerline of Ford
Drive;
Thence, along the centerline of
Ford Drive, North 47° 07' 12" West,
52.24 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 42° 52' 48" East, 34.09 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence North 46° 26' 18" West,
9.35 feet to a point;
Thence North 43° 33' 42" East,
10.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 46° 26' 18" East
along said line, 9.35 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 33' 42" West,
10.00 feet to the True Point of
Beginning.
Containing within said bounds 94
square feet of land.
ENCROACHMENT 5
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of East 117th Street
(45 feet wide) and the centerline of
Euclid Avenue (width varies);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, South 42° 54' 36"
West, 85.05 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 47° 05' 24" West, 33.81 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence South 40° 34' 01" West,
8.55 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 37' 52" West,
1.46 feet to a point;
Thence North 47° 05' 24" West,
6.53 feet to a point on the northwesterly right of way line of Euclid
Avenue;
Thence, along said northwesterly
right of way, North 42° 54' 36" East,
10.00 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said northwesterly right of way, South 47° 05' 24"
East, 6.19 feet to the True Point of
Beginning.
Containing within said bounds 64
square feet of land.
ENCROACHMENT 6
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of East 117th Street
(45 feet wide) and the centerline of
Euclid Avenue (width varies);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, North 42° 54' 36"
East, 506.42 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 47° 05' 24" West, 14.21 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence, continuing North 47° 05'
24" West, 25.79 feet to a point on the
northwesterly right of way line of
Euclid Avenue;
Thence, along said northwesterly
right of way, North 42° 54' 36" East,
10.00 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said northwesterly right of way, South 47° 05' 24"
East, 25.83 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 11' 06" West,
10.00 feet to the True Point of
Beginning.
Containing within said bounds 258
square feet of land.
ENCROACHMENT 7
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of East 123rd Street
(40 feet wide) and the centerline of
Euclid Avenue (80 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, South 42° 54' 36"
West, 195.00 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 47° 05' 24" West, 36.71 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;

1712

October 10, 2018
Thence South 45° 11' 37" West,
1.02 feet to a point;
Thence South 55° 19' 00" West,
9.19 feet to a point;
Thence North 47° 05' 24" West,
1.27 feet to a point on the northwesterly right of way line of Euclid
Avenue;
Thence, along said northwesterly
right of way, North 42° 54' 36" East,
10.00 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said northwesterly right of way, South 47° 05' 24"
East, 3.29 feet to the True Point of
Beginning.
Containing within said bounds 24
square feet of land.
ENCROACHMENT 8
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of East 123rd Street
(40 feet wide) and the centerline of
Euclid Avenue (80 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, South 42° 54' 36"
West, 58.00 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 47° 05' 24" West, 34.03 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence South 43° 02' 17" West,
10.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 47° 05' 24" West,
5.95 feet to a point on the northwesterly right of way line of Euclid
Avenue;
Thence, along said northwesterly
right of way, North 42° 54' 36" East,
10.00 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said northwesterly right of way line, South 47° 05'
24" East, 5.97 feet to the True Point
of Beginning.
Containing within said bounds 60
square feet of land.
ENCROACHMENT 9
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of East 123rd Street
(40 feet wide) and the centerline of
Euclid Avenue (80 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, North 42° 54' 36"
East, 230.55 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 47° 05' 24" West, 33.67 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence, continuing North 47° 05'
24" West, 6.33 feet to a point on the
northwesterly right of way line of
Euclid Avenue;
Thence, along said northwesterly
right of way, North 42° 54' 36" East
along said line, 10.00 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said northwesterly right of way line, South 47° 05'
24" East, 5.73 feet to a point;
Thence South 39° 28' 25" West,
10.02 feet to the True Point of
Beginning.
Containing within said bounds 60
square feet of land.
ENCROACHMENT 10
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of East 123rd Street
(40 feet wide) and the centerline of
Euclid Avenue (80 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, North 42° 54' 36"
East, 256.45 feet to a point;
Thence, continuing along said centerline, North 37° 02' 22" East, 219.64
feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 52° 56' 51" West, 32.84 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence, continuing North 52° 56'
51" West, 7.16 feet to a point on the

October 10, 2018
northwesterly right of way line of
Euclid Avenue;
Thence, along said northwesterly
right of way, North 37° 02' 22" East
along said line, 10.00 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said northwesterly right of way, South 52° 56' 51"
East, 7.16 feet to a point;
Thence South 37° 04' 17" West,
10.00 feet to the True Point of
Beginning.
Containing within said bounds 72
square feet of land.
ENCROACHMENT 11
Commencing at a drill hole in a
stone in a monument box found at
the intersection of the centerline of
Adelbert Street (60 feet wide) and
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(width varies);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, South 42° 54' 13"
West, 44.01 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 47° 05' 54" West, 42.43 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for a
15 foot wide easement, 7.5 feet on
each side of the following described
centerline;
Thence South 44° 01' 52" West,
88.16 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 22' 52" West,
45.38 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 09' 45" West,
49.07 feet to a point;
Thence South 48° 36' 31" East,
105.50 feet to the termination point
in the southeasterly right of way of
Euclid Avenue;
ENCROACHMENT 12
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Ford Drive (width
varies) and the centerline of Euclid
Avenue (width varies), said point
being South 47° 07' 12" East, 0.07
feet from an iron pin in a monument
box found in the centerline of Ford
Road;
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, North 42° 52' 48"
East, 52.06 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
South 47° 07' 12" East, 53.98 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for a
15 foot wide easement, 7.5 feet on
each side of the following described
centerline;
Thence South 51° 32' 27" West,
112.71 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 42' 36" West,
87.98 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 46' 17" West,
76.05 feet to a point;
Thence South 43° 03' 02" West,
40.52 feet to a point;
Thence South 36° 25' 10" West,
12.34 feet to a point;
Thence South 41° 54' 14" West,
10.79 feet to a point;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the left, 7.49 feet
to a point, said curve having a
radius of 18.76 feet, a central angle
of 22° 52' 46", and a chord of 7.44
feet which bears South 25° 35' 53"
West;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 10.35
feet to a point, said curve having a
radius of 20.00 feet, a central angle
of 29° 38' 45", and a chord of 10.23
feet which bears South 28° 58' 53"
West;
Thence South 43° 48' 15" West,
19.55 feet to a point;
Thence South 40° 45' 48" West,
54.55 feet to a point;
Thence North 39° 18' 53" West,
85.72 feet to the termination point.

The City Record
ENCROACHMENT 13
Commencing at a drill hole in a
stone in a monument box found at
the intersection of the centerline of
Adelbert Street (60 feet wide) and
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(width varies);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, South 42° 54' 13"
West, 343.89 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 47° 05' 54" West, 37.05 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence South 44° 05' 58" West,
113.97 feet;
Thence South 53° 19' 35" West,
28.10 feet;
Thence South 45° 41' 19" West,
39.94 feet;
Thence South 43° 11' 39" West,
77.08 feet;
Thence South 43° 21' 11" West,
96.13 feet;
Thence South 42° 13' 02" West,
65.44 feet;
Thence South 42° 42' 11" West,
135.23 feet to the southeasterly prolongation of the easterly right of
way of Stearns Road (width varies);
Thence, along said southeasterly
prolongation, along the arc of a
curve which deflects to the left, 3.78
feet to the northwesterly right of
way of Euclid Avenue, said curve
having a radius of 200.00 feet, a central angle of 01° 05' 00", and a
chord of 3.78 feet which bears North
61° 27' 45" West;
Thence, along said northwesterly
right of way, North 42° 54' 13" East,
557.11 feet to the southwesterly
right of way of East Boulevard (83
feet wide);
Thence, along the southeasterly
prolongation of the southwesterly
right of way of East Boulevard,
South 43° 24' 23" East, 12.98 feet to
True Point of Beginning.
Containing within said bounds
2,923 square feet of land.
ENCROACHMENT 14
Commencing at a drill hole in a
stone in a monument box found at
the intersection of the centerline of
Adelbert Street (60 feet wide) and
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(width varies);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, South 42° 54' 13"
West, 901.23 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 47° 05' 54" West, 53.83 feet to
the easterly right of way of Stearns
Road (width varies) and the True
Point of Beginning for a 15 foot
wide easement, 7.5 feet on each side
of the following described centerline;
Thence,
leaving
said
easterly
right of way, South 42° 42' 11"
West, 30.33 feet to a point;
Thence South 45° 38' 12" West,
34.05 feet to a point;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 53.53
feet to a point, said curve having a
radius of 345.52 feet, a central angle
of 08° 52' 33", and a chord of 53.47
feet which bears South 51° 43' 04"
West;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 197.29
feet to a point, said curve having a
radius of 395.04 feet, a central angle
of 28° 36' 52", and a chord of 195.25
feet which bears South 69° 25' 29"
West;
Thence South 80° 33' 06" West,
109.54 feet to a point;

1713

37
Thence North 89° 12' 55" West,
90.61 feet to a point;
Thence South 85° 49' 31" West,
114.28 feet to a point;
Thence South 89° 10' 28" West,
65.45 feet to a point;
Thence South 89° 55' 46" West,
206.60 feet to a point;
Thence South 87° 08' 01" West,
333.39 feet to a point;
Thence South 86° 42' 33" West,
36.04 feet to a point;
Thence South 87° 02' 46" West,
276.08 feet to a point;
Thence South 87° 39' 43" West,
16.11 feet to a point;
Thence, along the arc of a curve
which deflects to the right, 7.85 feet
to a point, said curve having a
radius of 5.00 feet, a central angle
of 90° 00' 00", and a chord of 7.07
feet which bears North 47° 20' 17"
West;
Thence North 02° 10' 53" West,
28.66 feet to the termination point;
ENCROACHMENT 15
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(width varies) and the centerline of
East 116th Place (30 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, South 42° 54' 36"
West 114.70 feet to an angle point
therein;
Thence, continuing along said centerline, South 42° 52' 48" West, 20.01
feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
South 47° 07' 12" East, 30.00 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence South 47° 07' 12" East,
10.00 feet;
Thence South 58° 03' 10" East,
6.38 feet to the southeasterly right
of way of Euclid Avenue;
Thence, along said southeasterly
right of way, South 23° 54' 36"
West, 11.49 feet;
Thence, continuing along said
southeasterly right of way, South
42° 52' 48" West, 121.02 feet;
Thence, leaving said southeasterly right of way, South 66° 51' 59"
West, 35.27 feet;
Thence South 43° 34' 39" West,
38.40 feet;
Thence South 08° 16' 00" West,
21.19 feet;
Thence South 42° 46' 35" West,
30.00 feet;
Thence North 47° 13' 25" West,
15.00 feet;
Thence North 42° 46' 35" East,
25.34 feet;
Thence North 08° 16' 00" East,
21.30 feet;
Thence North 43° 34' 39" East,
46.27 feet;
Thence North 66° 51' 59" East,
48.40 feet;
Thence North 42° 57' 50" East,
76.02 feet;
Thence North 27° 58' 18" East,
40.76 feet to the True Point of
Beginning.
Containing within said bounds
3,367 square feet.
ENCROACHMENT 16
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(width varies) and the centerline of
East 116th Place (30 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, South 42° 54' 36"
West, 1.75 feet;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
South 33° 07' 47" East, 41.22 feet to
the southeasterly right of way of

38
Euclid Avenue and the True Point
of Beginning for a 15 foot wide
easement, 7.5 feet on each side of
the following described centerline;
Thence, leaving said southeasterly right of way, North 33° 07' 47"
West, 135.21 feet;
Thence, North 54° 39' 24" West,
12.72 feet;
Thence, North 32° 29' 23" West,
71.87 feet to a point hereinafter
referred to as “Point A”;
Thence, continuing North 32° 29'
23" West, 79.07 feet;
Thence, South 57° 30' 37" West,
6.12 feet to the termination point in
the westerly right of way of East
116th Place;
ENCROACHMENT 17
Beginning at Point A hereinbefore
described;
Thence, North 33° 20' 44" East,
25.80 feet to the termination point in
the easterly right of way of East
116th Place;
ENCROACHMENT 18
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of East 115th Street
(50.00 feet wide) with the centerline
of Euclid Avenue (100 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of
East 115th Street, North 31° 07' 20"
West 54.85 feet;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
South 58° 52' 40" West, 17.50 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for a
15 foot wide easement, 7.5 feet on
each side of the following described
centerline;
Thence North 31° 07' 20" West,
305.70 feet to the termination point.
ENCROACHMENT 19
Commencing at a drill hole in a
stone in a monument box found at
the intersection of the centerline of
Adelbert Street (60 feet wide) and
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(width varies);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, North 42° 54' 13"
East 571.04 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 47° 05' 47" West, 47.39 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence North 46° 59' 50" West,
27.63 feet to a point on the northwesterly right of way of Euclid
Avenue (width varies);
Thence, along said northwesterly
right of way, North 42° 54' 20" East,
15.00 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said northwesterly right of way, South 46° 59' 50"
East, 27.64 feet to a point;
Thence South 42° 55' 11" West,
15.00 feet to the True Point of
Beginning.
Containing within said bounds 415
square feet of land.
ENCROACHMENT 20
Commencing at a drill hole in a
stone in a monument box found at
the intersection of the centerline of
Adelbert Street (60 feet wide) and
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(width varies);
Thence along the centerline of
Adelbert Street, South 47° 07' 11"
East, 66.57 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
South 42° 52' 49" West, 44.08 feet to
a point in the southeasterly right of
way of Euclid Avenue and the True
Point of Beginning for a 15 foot
wide easement, 7.5 feet on each side
of the following described centerline;

The City Record
Thence, leaving said southeasterly right of way, North 51° 35' 30"
West, 66.79 feet to a point;
Thence North 42° 11' 29" West,
50.18 feet to the termination point in
the northwesterly right of way of
Euclid Avenue.
ENCROACHMENT 21
Commencing at a drill hole in a
stone in a monument box found at
the intersection of the centerline of
Adelbert Street (60 feet wide) and
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(width varies);
Thence, along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue, South 42° 54' 13"
West, 56.96 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
South 47° 05' 47" East, 48.33 feet to
the True Point of Beginning for the
easement herein described;
Thence, continuing South 47° 05'
47" East, 8.62 feet to a point on the
southeasterly right of way line of
Euclid Avenue;
Thence, along said southeasterly
right of way, South 41° 19' 14"
West, 88.18 feet to a point;
Thence, leaving said southeasterly right of way, North 47° 05' 47"
West, 11.05 feet to a point;
Thence North 42° 54' 13" East,
88.15 feet to the True Point of
Beginning.
Containing within said bounds 867
square feet of land.
The basis of bearings is the Ohio
State Plane, North Zone NAD83
(1995) Grid North.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the Director of Law determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The permit
shall be issued only when, in the
opinion of the Director of Law, the
prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any
loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 3. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Capital Projects.
That the
encroaching structure(s) permitted
by this ordinance shall conform to
plans
and
specifications
first
approved by the Manager of the
City’s Division of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

1714

October 10, 2018
Ord. No. 1049-18.
By Council Members McCormack,
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to issue a permit to Cavaliers Operating Company, LLC to encroach
into
the
public
right-of-way
of
Huron Road by installing, using,
and maintaining a LED totem board
and foundation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
issue a permit, revocable at the will
of Council, to Cavaliers Operating
Company, LLC, 1 Center Court,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115 (“Permittee”),
to encroach into the public right-ofway of Huron Road by installing,
using, and maintaining a LED totem
board and foundation at the following location:
ENCROACHMENT FOR A
TOTEM WITHIN THE
R/W OF HURON ROAD S.E.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Huron Road S. E. (94 feet wide),
and further bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at 1" iron pin monument found (0.05' E) marking the
centerline intersection of Ontario
Street (variable width) with said
Huron Road S.E.;
Thence N 56° 25' 14" E, along said
centerline of Huron Road S.E., a distance of 77.12 feet to a point;
Thence S 33° 34' 46" E, a distance
of 49.50 feet to a point on the
southerly line of said Huron Road
S.E. at its intersection with the easterly line of said Ontario Street;
Thence N 56° 25' 14" E, along said
southerly line of Huron Road S.E., a
distance of 11.40 feet to the principal place of beginning of the
encroachment herein intended to be
described;
Course 1:
Thence N 10° 09' 59" W, a distance of 7.83 feet to a point;
Course No. 2:
Thence N 79° 50' 01 " E, a distance of 14.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 3:
Thence S 10° 09' 59" E, a distance
of 1.77 feet to a point on said
southerly line of Huron Road S. E.;
Course No. 4:
Thence S 56° 25' 14" W, along
said southerly line of Huron Road
S.E., a distance of 15.26 feet to the
principal point of beginning and
containing 0.0015 acres (67 sq. ft.)
of land as calculated and described
by John E. Jansky, Registered Surveyor Number 6440 of the C.W.
Courtney Company in July, 2018, be
the same or less, but subjected to
all legal highways.
Bearings used herein are based on
assumed meridian and are used to
indicate angles only.
The intent of the above legal
description is to include all portions

October 10, 2018
of the proposed Totem that will lie
within the right of way of Huron
Road S.E.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the Director of Law determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The permit
shall be issued only when, in the
opinion of the Director of Law, the
prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any
loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 3. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Capital Projects.
That the
encroaching structure(s) permitted
by this ordinance shall conform to
plans
and
specifications
first
approved by the Manager of the
City’s Division of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 4. That the permits shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1050-18.
By Council Members Hairston,
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the County of Cuyahoga for the
resurfacing portions of Eddy Road
and Shaw Avenue; authorizing the
Director of Capital Projects to enter
into any relative agreements; to
apply for and accept an allocation
of County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Funds for the improvement; and
causing payment of the City’s share
to the County for the cost of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Consent. That it is
declared to be in the public interest
that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given to the County of Cuyahoga (the “County”) to construct the
following improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the County: resurfacing
of Eddy Road from Gray Avenue to
Arlington Avenue and resurfacing
of Shaw Avenue from St. Clair
Avenue to the East Corporation line,
County Project ID No. 1236 (the
“Improvement”).

The City Record
Section 2. Cooperation
(a) That the City will cooperate
with the County in the Improvement.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for
the improvements under current
County standards for construction of
County roads and bridges.
(c) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction project.
Section 3. Funding
(a) That the City agrees to participate with the County in the cost
of the Improvement by an allocation
from the County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Fund to pay the County portion of the project; and by
applying to the County to use the
License Tax Funds for the Improvement.
(b) That if funds administered by
the Ohio Public Works Commission
are used for the Improvement, the
amount of the funds shall be applied
to the County’s share of the costs
specified in this ordinance.
(c) That the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the
construction contract at the request
of the City, which are determined by
the County not eligible or made necessary by the Improvement.
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, the
City will keep the highway open to
traffic at all times; and
(a) Maintain the improvement in
accordance with the provisions of
the statutes relating thereto and
make ample financial provisions for
the maintenance;
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstructions in a
manner satisfactory to the County
and hold the right-of-way inviolate
for public highway purposes and
permit no signs, posters, billboards,
roadside stands or other private
installations within the right-of-way
limits;
(c) That the County shall continue to maintain the structural elements of any bridge (defined as a
structure with a span of twenty feet
or greater) located within the limits
of
the
Improvement
under
the
applicable sections of the Revised
Code; and
(d) After construction of the
Improvement is complete, the City
agrees to follow and maintain postconstruction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed
with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
Section 5. Traffic. That on completion of the Improvement, the City
will keep the highway open to traffic at all times; and
(a) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices conforming to the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices on the Improvement
in compliance with the provisions of
Section 4511.11 of the Revised Code
and other related sections of the
Revised Code;
(b) That the street or highway
within the limits of the Improvement is designated a through highway as provided in division (A)(6)
of Section 4511.07 of the Revised
Code;
(c) That, if applicable, stop signs
affecting the movement of traffic on
the street or highway within the

1715

39
Improvement shall be removed, and
no stop signs shall be erected on
same except at its intersection with
another through highway where
traffic does not warrant the installation of a traffic control signal but
where the warrants for a “Four-Way
Stop” as provided in the above-mentioned Manual are met;
(d) That no rule or regulation
shall be enacted restricting the use
of the Improvement by any class of
vehicle or vehicle load permitted by
the Revised Code to use a public
highway. Any existing rule or regulation so restricting road usage is
rescinded; and
(e) The City shall regulate parking in the following manner: Prohibit parking under Section 4511.66
of the Revised Code unless otherwise controlled by local ordinance
or resolution.
Section 6. Right-of-Way
(a) That all existing street and
public right-of-way within the City
which is necessary for the Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for
the
Improvement
the
City
will
arrange for the acquisition.
Section 7. Utilities
1. The County will make arrangements with and obtain agreements
from privately owned public utility
companies whose lines or structures
will be affected by the said improvement, and said companies have
agreed to make any and all necessary arrangements in such a manner as to be clear of any construction called for by the plans of said
improvement, and said companies
have agreed to make such necessary
arrangements
immediately
after
notification by said City.
2. That the County will pay the
cost of alterations of governmentally-owned
utility
facilities
which
come within the provisions of Section 8301 (Utility Reimbursement
Eligibility) of the Ohio Department
of Transportation’s Real Estate Policies and Procedures Manual to the
same extent that it participates in
the other costs of the project, provided, however, that such participation will not extend to any additions
or betterments of existing facilities.
3. The City shall cooperate with
the County to, make all arrangements of governmentally-owned utilities and/or appurtenances thereto
which do not comply with the Provisions
of
Section
8301
(Utility
Reimbursement Eligibility) of the
Ohio Department of Transportation’s
Real Estate Policies and Procedures
Manual, whether inside or outside
the corporate limits, as may be necessary to conform to the said
improvement.
4. That the construction, reconstruction, and/or arrangement of all
utilities shall be done in such a
manner as not to interfere unduly
with the operation of the contractor
constructing the improvement, and
all backfilling of trenches made necessary by such utility rearrangements shall be performed in accordance with the provision of the Ohio
Department of Transportation Construction and Material Specifications.
Section 8. Miscellaneous
(a) That if the County is formally requested by ordinance of this
Council to include the construction
of sanitary sewers, water lines, area
sewers (drainage of area surrounding the Improvement), sidewalks,

40
alternate bid items, or other items
in the Improvement that are in addition to those now existing and not
provided for elsewhere in this ordinance, the County will do so, provided that the construction meets
with the approval of the County and
the City involved in this Improvement; and that the City agrees to
pay, or make arrangements for the
payment of the cost of the construction. The cost of preliminary
and design engineering, and construction supervision.
(b) For purposes of this ordinance, the agent for the County and
liaison officer shall be the County
Engineer of Cuyahoga County, Ohio,
and/or such members of his staff as
he may designate.
(c) That, under the provisions of
Chapters
304
and
1306
of
the
Revised, code, the City agrees to
conduct this transaction by electronic means and agrees that all
documents requiring County signatures may be executed by electronic means, and that the electronic
signatures affixed by the County to
the documents shall have the same
legal effect as if that signature was
manually affixed to a paper version
of the document.
Section 9. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
apply to the County for an allocation from the County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Fund to pay the County portion of the Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
enter into agreements with the
County necessary to complete the
Improvement.
Section 11. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 12. That this Council
authorizes payment to the County of
the City’s share of the Improvement
which is currently estimated to be
$240,000, payable from Fund Nos. 20
SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF
540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, 20 SF 563,
20 SF 568, 20 SF 574, 20 SF 579, 20
SF 586, from future bonds if issued
for this purpose, and from any fund
or funds approved by the Director of
Finance. (RQS 0103, RL 2018-92)
Section 13. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit to the
County three (3) certified copies of
this ordinance immediately on its
taking effect.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1105-18.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with Cuyahoga County and various
non-profit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance
activities.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Cuyahoga County and
various non-profit agencies for the
implementation of homeless assistance activities.
Section 2. The aggregate cost of
the contracts authorized shall not
exceed $2,303,136, and shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 14 SF 043, 14 SF 044,
19 SF 657, and 19 SF 665, RQS 8006,
RL 2018-0095.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1108-18.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of recycled or
virgin asphalt concrete, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for requirements for a
term of one year or two years for
the necessary items of recycled or
virgin
asphalt
concrete
in
the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Works. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Public Works
is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts with a term of two
years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance,
a financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public
Works
by
comparing
the
bids
received for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be paid

1716

October 10, 2018
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the proceeds from the sale
of bonds, if issued for this purpose,
and shall also be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts
and the Director of Finance shall
certify the amount of any purchase
under the contract, each of which
purchases shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies by a delivery order issued
against the contract or contracts
and certified by the Director of
Finance. (RQN 7016, RL 2018-28)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Works may sign all documents that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1111-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of valves,
actuators, and appurtenances, and
labor
and
materials
needed
to
repair, replace, maintain, exercise,
and
test
valves,
actuators
and
appurtenances, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a
two-year period of the necessary items
of
valves,
actuators,
and
appurtenances,
and
labor
and
materials needed to repair, replace,
maintain, exercise, and test valves,
actuators and appurtenances, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the items
as the Board of Control determines.
Alternate bids for a period less than
the specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of

The City Record

October 10, 2018
Purchases
and
Supplies
until
provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Utilities may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.

41

Section 3. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be paid
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the proceeds from the sale
of future bonds, if authorized for
this purpose, and shall also be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of any purchase under the contract,
each of which purchases shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the
contract or contracts and certified

by the Director of Finance. (RQN
2002, RL 2018-26)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1117-18.
By Council Members Polensek, Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. PI 2017-08 with Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. for the rehabilitation of East 152nd Street from
Woodworth Avenue to Waterloo Road.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to make the following alterations and modifications in Contract No. PI 2017-08 Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. for the rehabilitation of East 152nd Street from
Woodworth Avenue to Waterloo Road:
Subsidiary Additions – New Items
Additional pavement repairs of pavement base

$250,000

Total Additions – New Items
TOTAL SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS

$
$

250,000.00
250,000.00

Original Contract Amount
Total Subsidiary Additions
New Contract Amount

$5,633,036.80
250,000.00
$5,883,036.80

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director of Capital Projects, countersigned by the
Mayor, and consented to by the surety on the contract. The price to be paid for the alterations and modifications
to the contract has been agreed upon in writing and signed by the Director of Capital Projects and the contractor. This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the original contract in the sum of $250,000 to
be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, 20 SF 563, 20 SF 568,
20 SF 574, 20 SF 579, 20 SF 584, 20 SF 586, 52 SF 001, and 54 SF 001. (RQS 0103, RL 2018-98)
Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1118-18.
By Council Members J. Jones, Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. CT 7004 PI 2017-54 with Apex Construction and Management Company, Inc. for the repair to the pool
ceiling at the JFK Recreation Center.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to make the following alterations and modifications in Contract No. CT 7004 PI 2017-54 with Apex Construction and Management Company, Inc. for the repair
to the pool ceiling at the JFK Recreation Center:
Subsidiary Additions – New Items
Installing protective netting above the pool and anchor
straps, repairing electrical conduit, providing scaffolding,
repairing a wall in the office and mezzanine, cleaning ducts
and steel members, and providing construction contingency
Subsidiary Additions – New Items

$40,000

Total Additions – New Items
TOTAL SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS

$ 40,000.00
$ 40,000.00

Original Contract Amount
Total Subsidiary Additions
New Contract Amount

$162,490.00
40,000.00
$202,490.00

1717

42

The City Record

October 10, 2018

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director of Capital Projects, countersigned by the
Mayor, and consented to by the surety on the contract. The price to be paid for the alterations and modifications
to the contract has been agreed upon in writing and signed by the Director of Capital Projects and the contractor. This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the original contract in the sum of $40,000 to be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 552, 20 SF 558, 20 SF 561, 20 SF 565, 20 SF 572, 20 SF 577, and 20 SF 58. (RQS 0103,
RL 2018-18)
Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1119-18.
By Council Members J. Jones,
Bishop, Johnson and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the County of Cuyahoga for the
improvement of East 131st Street
from Miles Avenue to Forestdale
Drive in the Cities of Cleveland and
Garfield Heights; authorizing the
Director of Capital Projects to enter
into agreements; to apply for and
accept an allocation of County Motor
Vehicle License Tax Funds; and to
cause payment to the County for the
City’s share of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Consent. That it is
declared to be in the public interest
that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given to the County of Cuyahoga (the “County”) to construct the
following improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the County: improvement of East 131st Street from Miles
Avenue to Forestdale Drive in the
Cities of Cleveland and Garfield
Heights (County ID No. 1235) (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. Cooperation
(a) That the City will cooperate
with the County in the Improvement.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for
the Improvement, under Current
Cuyahoga County standards for construction
of
County
roads
and
bridges.
(c) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction project.
(d) That the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the
construction contract at the request
of the City, which are determined by
the County to be not eligible or
made necessary by the Improvement.
Section 3. Funding
(a) That the City agrees to cooperate with the County in the cost of
the Improvement by an allocation
from the County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Fund to pay the County portion of the project.
(b) That if funds administered by
the Ohio Public Works Commission
are used for this project, the amount
of such funds will be deducted from
designated project cost prior to the
application of the participatory percentages specified in this ordinance.

(c) Within the corporate limits of
the City, the City will be responsible for 40% and the County will be
responsible for 60% of the cost of
the
preparation
of
construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for
the Improvement.
(d) Within the corporate limits of
the City, the City will be responsible for 20% and the County will be
responsible for 80% of the cost of
construction, including the supervision and administration of the construction, for the improvement.
(e) That the City agrees to
deposit with the Treasurer of Cuyahoga County the City’s share of the
estimated cost of the project or
agrees to enter into an escrow
agreement with the County prior to
an award of a contract for the
Improvement.
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, the
City will keep the highway open to
traffic at all times; and
(a) Maintain the Improvement in
accordance with the provisions of
the statutes relating thereto and
make ample financial provisions for
the maintenance;
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstructions in a
manner satisfactory to the County
and hold the right-of-way inviolate
for public highway purposes and
permit no signs, posters, billboards,
roadside stands or other private
installations within the right-of-way
limits;
(c) That the County shall continue to maintain the structural elements of any bridge (defined as a
structure with a span of twenty feet
or greater) located within the limits
of
the
Improvement
under
the
applicable sections of the Revised
Code; and
(d) After construction of the
Improvement is complete, the City
agrees to follow and maintain postconstruction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed
with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
Section 5. Traffic. That on completion of the Improvement, the City
will keep the highway open to traffic at all times; and
(a) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices conforming to the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices on the Improvement
in compliance with the provisions of
Section 4511.11 of the Revised Code
and other related sections of the
Revised Code;
(b) That the street or highway
within the limits of the Improvement is designated a through highway as provided in division (A)(6)

1718

of Section 4511.07 of the Revised
Code;
(c) That stop signs affecting the
movement of traffic on the street or
highway within the Improvement
shall be removed, and no stop signs
shall be erected on same except at
its
intersection
with
another
through highway where traffic does
not warrant the installation of a
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-Way Stop” as
provided in the above-mentioned
Manual are met;
(d) That no rule or regulation
shall be enacted restricting the use
of the Improvement by any class of
vehicle or vehicle load permitted by
the Revised Code to use a public
highway. Any existing rule or regulation so restricting road usage is
rescinded; and
(e) The City shall regulate parking in the following manner: Prohibit parking under Section 4511.66
of the Revised Code unless otherwise controlled by local ordinance
or resolution.
Section 6. Right-of-Way
(a) That all existing street and
public right-of-way within the City
which is necessary for the Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required, the
City will arrange for the acquisition.
Section 7. Utilities
(a) That the City will make
arrangements
with
and
obtain
arrangements from all privatelyowned
public
utility
companies
whose lines or structures will be
affected by the Improvement, and
the companies have agreed to make
any and all necessary arrangements
in such a manner as to be clear of
any construction called for by the
plans for the Improvement, and the
companies have agreed to make necessary rearrangements immediately
after notification by the City.
(b) That the County will pay the
costs of alterations of governmentally-owned utility facilities which
come within the provisions of Section 8301 (Utility Reimbursement
Eligibility) of the Ohio Department
of Transportation’s Real Estate Policies and Procedures Manual to the
same extent that it participates in
the other costs of the Improvement,
provided, however, that such participation will not extend to any additions or betterments of existing
facilities.
(c) That it is agreed that the City
shall cooperate with the County to
make all arrangements of governmentally-owned
utilities
and/or
appurtenances that do not comply
with the provisions of Section 8301
(Utility Reimbursement Eligibility)

October 10, 2018
of the Ohio Department of Transportation’s Real Estate Policies and
Procedures
Manual,
whether
whether inside or outside the corporate limits, as may be necessary to
conform to the Improvement.
(d) That the construction, reconstruction, and/or arrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operation of the contractor constructing the Improvement, and all
backfilling of trenches made necessary by utility rearrangements shall
be performed under the provisions
of the ODOT Construction and Material Specifications.
Section 8. Miscellaneous
(a) That if the County is formally requested by ordinance of this
Council to include the construction
of sanitary sewers, water lines, area
sewers (drainage of area surrounding the Improvement), sidewalks,
alternate bid items, or other items
in the Improvement that are in addition to those now existing and not
provided for elsewhere in this ordinance, the County will do so, provided that the construction meets
with the approval of the County and
the City involved in this Improvement; and that the City agrees to
pay, or make arrangements for the
payment of the cost of the construction, cost of preliminary and
design engineering, and construction supervision.
(b) For purposes of this ordinance, the agent for the County and
liaison officer shall be the County
Engineer of Cuyahoga County, Ohio,
and/or such members of his staff as
he may designate.
(c) That the City agrees to conduct this transaction by electronic
means and agrees that all documents requiring County signatures
may
be
executed
by
electronic
means, and that the electronic signatures affixed by the County to the
documents shall have the same legal
effect as if that signature was manually affixed to a paper version of
the document. The City also agrees
on behalf of the aforementioned
entities and persons to be bound by
the provisions of Chapters 304 and
1306 of the Revised Code as they
pertain to electronic transactions,
and to comply with the electronic
signature policy of the County.
Section 9. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
enter into agreements necessary to
complete the Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
apply to the County for approval to
use County Motor Vehicle License
Tax funds to pay for the Improvement, to accept the funds and to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds; and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth
above.
Section 11. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 12. That this Council
authorizes payment to the County
for the City’s share of the Improvement, payable from Fund Nos. 20 SF
520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540,
20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, 20 SF 563, 20
SF 568, 20 SF 574, 20 SF 579, 20 SF
586, from the fund or funds to which
are credited the proceeds from the
sale future bonds, if issued for this

The City Record
purpose,
and
from
any
funds
approved by the Director of Finance.
(RQS 0103, RL 2018-96)
Section 13. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit to the
County three (3) certified copies of
this ordinance immediately on its
taking effect.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

Ord. No. 1120-18.
By Council Members J. Jones,
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 2 and 15 of Ordinance No.
628-17, passed June 5, 2017, relating
to an agreement with the City of
Garfield Heights to make the public
improvement of reconstructing Johnston
Parkway
from
McCracken
Road to Velma Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 2 and 15
of Ordinance No. 628-17, passed June
5, 2017, are amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That Cleveland agrees
to participate with Garfield Heights
in the cost of the reconstruction project by contributing approximately
twenty-nine percent (29%) of the
total design, construction, and construction administration costs, estimated to be $1,685,329 for the City
of
Cleveland’s
portion
of
the
improvement.
Section 15. That the costs of this
ordinance shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 534,
20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, 20
SF 563, 20 SF 568, 20 SF 574, 20 SF
579, 20 SF 586, from the fund or
funds to which are credited any proceeds from the sale of bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 413-17, passed
April 24, 2017, the fund or funds to
which are credited any gift or grant
proceeds accepted under this ordinance, cash matches, cash contributions
accepted
and
appropriated
under this ordinance, and from any
and all funds approved by the Director of Finance. (RQS 0103, RLA 201717 and RQS 0103, RLA 2018-48)
Section 2. That existing Sections 2
and 15 of Ordinance No. 628-17,
passed June 5, 2017, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

1719

43
Ord. No. 1122-18.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 185.36 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No.792-03,
passed June 10, 2003, relating to subcontractors.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 185.36 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 792-03, passed June 10,
2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 185.36 Subcontractors
(a) The contractor shall not sublet nor shall any subcontractor commence performance of any part of
the work included or any materialman deliver or fabricate materials,
plant or equipment to be incorporated in the contract without the
previous written consent of the
Board of Control. Subletting, if permitted, shall not relieve the contractor or his or her surety of any
of his, her or its obligations under
the contract.
(b) Failure by the contractor to
obtain consent of the Board of Control for any subcontractor or materialman shall be a breach of the contract for which the contractor may
incur a penalty.
(c) The contractor shall be and
remain solely responsible to the City
for the acts or faults of his or her
subcontractor and of such subcontractor’s
officers,
agents
and
employees, each of whom shall, for
this purpose, be deemed to be the
agent or employee of the contractor
to the extent of his or her subcontract. The contractor shall promptly,
on request of the City file a confirmed copy of the subcontract with
prices deleted, as a condition precedent to the approval of a subcontractor. The contractor and subcontractor shall jointly and severally
agree that subcontracting does not
obligate the City to pay, or to see
to the payment of any sums to any
subcontractor.
(d) The contractor shall report
immediately to the City Tax Administrator any and all complaints of
improper or irregular payment by
subcontractor
to
subcontractor’s
employees. The City Tax Administrator or designee shall immediately investigate such reports, and
shall take such action as may be
deemed necessary under these Codified Ordinances or relevant state or
federal laws.
Section 2. That existing Section
185.36 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No.792-03, passed June
10, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

44
Ord. No. 1183-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 667-18,
passed May 21, 2018, relating to
authorization to purchase software
licenses,
updates,
upgrades,
enhancements, training, technical
support, maintenance and repairs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 181.102 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 667-18, passed May 21,
2018, is amended to read as follows:
Section 181.102 Authorization to
Purchase Software or Other Licenses,
Modules,
Updates,
Upgrades,
Enhancements, Training, Technical
Support, Maintenance, and Repairs
(a) When a director has been
authorized by ordinance to acquire
software, the director of the department for which the software was
acquired or the Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into one (1)
or
more
standard
purchase
or
requirement contracts duly let to the
lowest and best bidder as provided
in Section 181.10, for software or
other licenses, modules, updates,
upgrades, enhancements, training,
technical support, maintenance, and
repair
necessary
to
expand,
enhance, implement or maintain the
authorized software.
(b) When a director has been
authorized by ordinance to acquire
software, the director of the department for which the software was
acquired or the Director of Finance
is authorized to acquire by contract
or contracts with one (1) or more
software developers or vendors or
one (1) or more firms of software
developers or vendors, software or
other licenses, modules, updates,
upgrades, enhancements, training,
technical support, maintenance, and
repair
necessary
to
expand,
enhance, implement or maintain the
authorized software. The selection
of the software developers or vendors shall be made by the Board of
Control on the nomination of the
director of the department for which
the software was acquired or the
Director of Finance from lists of
qualified software developers or
vendors available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the director of the department for which the
software was acquired or the Director of Finance for the purpose of
compiling the lists.
(c) When a director has been
authorized by ordinance to acquire
a software system, the director of
the department for which the system
was acquired or the Director of
Finance is authorized to execute one
(1) or more license agreements for
software or other licenses needed to
expand,
enhance,
implement
or
maintain the system.
(d) When a director has been
authorized to contract with a soft-

The City Record
ware developer or vendor, whether
specified in an authorizing ordinance or by Board of Control resolution, to acquire software, the
director of the department for which
the software is acquired or the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into one (1) or more contracts
with the software developer or vendor for professional services necessary to perform as-needed services
to expand, enhance, implement or
maintain the software, including but
not limited to, integration, implementation, migration, installation,
design,
interfacing,
maintenance,
repair,
upgrades,
enhancements,
training, training registration, testing, and technical support.
(e) The Board of Control shall fix
the compensation to be paid for the
software or other licenses, software
systems
or
services
authorized
under this ordinance which shall be
paid from the annual appropriation
made for such purpose. The contract
or contracts shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the director of the department for
which the purchase is made or the
Director of Finance, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
(f) Nothing in this section shall
be construed to authorize the acquisition of new software or any professional services that, in the judgment of the Director of Finance,
would significantly expand or modify the performance characteristics
of the originally authorized software beyond the function or purpose
capabilities identified in the ordinance authorizing the initial acquisition.
(g) That under Section 108(b) of
the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Finance
may sign all documents that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 2. That existing Section
181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 667-18, passed May
21, 2018, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

October 10, 2018
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2b of Ordinance No. 565-17, passed June 5, 2017,
as amended by Ordinance No. 658-18,
passed May 21, 2018, is amended to
read as follows:
Section 2b. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to provide such loans or grants
in an amount up to $40,000 per unit.
Section 2. That existing Section 2b
of Ordinance No. 565-17, passed June
5, 2017, as amended by Ordinance
No. 658-18, passed May 21, 2018, is
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 1, 2018.
Effective October 2, 2018.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, October 8, 2018
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee:
Present:
Griffin,
Chair;
McCormack, Vice Chair; Conwell, B.
Jones, Hairston, Santana, Zone.
1:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Zone, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Griffin, Keane, McCormack.
Tuesday, October 9, 2018
9:30 a.m.
Development, Planning and Sustainability (Zoning) Committee: Present:
Brancatelli,
Chair;
Bishop,
Hairston, B. Jones, Keane, McCormack. Authorized Absence: Cleveland, Vice Chair.
Development, Planning and Sustainability
Committee:
Present:
Brancatelli, Chair; Bishop, Hairston,
B. Jones, Keane, McCormack. Authorized
Absence:
Cleveland,
Vice
Chair.
1:30 p.m.

Ord. No. 1185-18.
By Council Members BrancatelIi
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2b of Ordinance No. 565-17,
passed June 5, 2017, as amended by
Ordinance No. 658-18, passed May 21,
2018, relating to construction gap
funding to encourage the construction and rehabilitation of singlefamily homes.

1720

Utilities Committee: TOUR Present: Keane, Chair; Kazy, Vice
Chair; Bishop, Hairston, Polensek,
Santana.
Authorized
Absence:
McCormack.
Wednesday, October 10, 2018
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee: Present: Zone,
Chair; Polensek, Vice Chair; Griffin,
Kazy, B. Jones, J. Jones, Santana.

October 10, 2018

The City Record

45

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into maintenance, inspection and repair
agreement with and to issue a permit to The Board of Park Commissioners of the
Cleveland Metropolitan Park District to encroach into the public rights-of-way of Salt
Road and Riverbed Street by installing, using and maintaining the Wendy Park Bridge
and an asphalt all-purpose trail. (O 1046-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Workforce Development to apply for, accept and expend funds and
resources from the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services, or other fiscal agents, for
the 2018 Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and Workforce Development Program
grants; to enter into contracts and memoranda of understanding with various entities
necessary to administer and implement the Workforce Development programs; to enter
into one or more agreements with Cuyahoga County, or other fiscal agents, to accept
monies for implementation of the programs; and to sublease areas at OhioMeansJobs
Cleveland Cuyahoga County One Stop Service Center, located at 1910 Carnegie Avenue.
(O 1240-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the County of Cuyahoga for the improvement of
East 131st Street from Miles Avenue to Forestdale Drive in the Cities of Cleveland and
Garfield Heights; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into agreements;
to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds; and to
cause payment to the County for the City’s share of the improvement. (O 1119-18) . . . . . . . . . .
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing portions
of Eddy Road and Shaw Avenue; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
any relative agreements; to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Funds for the improvement; and causing payment of the City’s share to the
County for the cost of the improvement. (O 1050-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 2 and 15 of Ordinance No. 628-17, passed June 5, 2017, relating to an
agreement with the City of Garfield Heights to make the public improvement of
reconstructing Johnston Parkway from McCracken Road to Velma Avenue. (O 1120-18) . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .1710

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .1680

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .1718

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .1715

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .1719

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Angelus Avenue, 12006 (Ward 2) — Maurice K. Smith, owner — appeal resolved on 10/3/18
(Doc. A-184-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Benwood Avenue, 14807 (Ward 1) — RSN Holdings I, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 10/3/18
(Doc. A-157-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bradley Road, 4190 (Ward 12) — Elite Crane & Equipment Services, Inc., owner — appeal
resolved on 10/3/18 (Doc. A-175-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burnside Avenue, 16511 (Ward 8) — Earl M. Foster, owner — appeal resolved on
10/3/18 (Doc. A-178-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cornelia Avenue, 7705 (a.k.a. 7701 Cornelia Avenue) (Ward 7) — Patricia
Jones-Elder, owner — appeal resolved on 10/3/18 (Doc. A-181-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 3621 (Ward 4) — Timothy Walker, owner — appeal adopted on
10/3/18 (Doc. A-159-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 126th Street, 1964 (a.k.a. 1962 East 126th Street) (Ward 6) — John A. Marinucci,
owner — appeal resolved on 10/3/18 (Doc. A-177-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 126th Street, 2909 (Ward 4) — Janice Z. Streeter, owner — appeal adopted on 10/3/18
(Doc. A-156-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 128th Street, 3048 (Ward 4) — Barbara Taylor, owner — appeal adopted on
10/3/18 (Doc. A-169-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 139th Street, 3416 (Ward 4) — Allen Settles, owner — appeal adopted on 10/3/18
(Doc. A-155-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 146th Street, 3724 (Ward 2) — Clinton Marbury, owner — appeal adopted on 10/3/18
(Doc. A-163-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 173rd Street, 4808 (Ward 1) — Cleveland-OH R-009 c/o Der-Jenn Liu, owner — appeal
adopted on 10/3/18 (Doc. A-170-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 97th Street, 1077 (Ward 9) — Ann Y. Goens, owner — appeal adopted on 10/3/18
(Doc. A-161-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forest Avenue, 11917 (Ward 4) — Darnell Davis/Transformation Property Management,
owner — appeal adopted on 10/3/18 (Doc. A-165-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holmden Avenue, 1291 (Ward 12) — Hamza Ahmad Abuhamden, owner — appeal resolved on
10/3/18 (Doc. A-174-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holmden Avenue, 1295 (Ward 12) — Entry Point Development, owner — appeal postponed to
10/17/18 on 10/3/18 (Doc. A-186-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Boulevard, 17568 (a.k.a. 17570 Lakeshore Bouelvard) (Ward 8) — RSN Holdings
I, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 10/3/18 (Doc. A-180-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outwaite Avenue, 5509 (Ward 5) — Lee A. Martin, owner — appeal resolved on 10/3/18
(Doc. A-185-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sackett Avenue, 4117 (Ward 14) — Persid Perez, owner — appeal adopted on 10/3/18
(Doc. A-158-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1721

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1699
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698

The City Record

46

St. Clair Avenue, 4059 (a.k.a. 4115 St. Clair Avenue) (Ward 10) — Birnbaum Family
Limited, owner — appeal postponed to 10/17/18 on 10/3/18 (Doc. A-176-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warren Road, 3180 (a.k.a. 3186 Warren Road) (Ward 17) — The Church In Cleveland, owner —
appeal adopted on 10/3/18 (Doc. A-167-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 3942 (Ward 16) — James W. Corbett Jr., owner — appeal resolved
on 10/3/18 (Doc. A-182-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 30th Street, 4529 (Ward 13) — Karen Meske, owner — appeal adopted on 10/3/18
(Doc. A-154-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 49th Street, 4385 (Ward 13) — Nelly Kelley, owner — appeal resolved on 10/3/18
(Doc. A-173-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Avenue, 13421 (Ward 16) — Donna M. Sindyla, owner — appeal resolved on 10/3/18
(Doc. A-162-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

October 10, 2018

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697

Board of Control — Airports Division
Fee for use of City-owned Jetbridges at CHIA — amend BOC Res. 314-18 — Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 403-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Landing Fee Module and Portal Core Software Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to PASSUR
Aerospace, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 404-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Parking Rates at Burke Lakefront Airport, Marginal Road and lots — per Article 5.9
of Contract NF2012*023 — set rates — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 402-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Brookfield Park Pavilion Site improvements, 2018 — per Ord. 348-18 to Perk Co., Inc.
(BOC Res. 408-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Easement right to PPN 131-24-005 for Morgana Bluffs Nature Preserve and Learning Center —
per Ord. 923-18 to Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland and West Creek Conservancy
(BOC Res. 410-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire Station #4 Mechanical and Utilities Improvements — approve subcontractors — Contract
#PI2018*015 (BOC Res. 407-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Room 518 Renovations — per Ord. 550-17 to Apex Construction and Management Company, Inc.
(BOC Res. 409-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694

Board of Control — City Hall
Room 518 Renovations — per Ord. 550-17 to Apex Construction and Management Company,
Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 409-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Carpeting tile — per Ord. 947-17 — all bids rejected (BOC Res. 406-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
Fee for use of City-owned Jetbridges — amend BOC Res. 314-18 — Division of Airports,
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 403-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Landing Fee Module and Portal Core Software Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to PASSUR
Aerospace, Inc. — Division of Airports, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 404-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Storefront Renovation Program technical assistance — per Ord. 727-18 to Carolyn Smith Division of Neighborhood Development (BOC Res. 414-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Board of Control — Concession Agreement
Parking Rates at Burke Lakefront Airport, Marginal Road and lots — per Article 5.9
of
Contract NF2012*023 — set rates — Division of Airports, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 402-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692

Board of Control — Easements
Easement right to PPN 131-24-005 for Morgana Bluffs Nature Preserve and Learning Center —
per Ord. 923-18 to Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland and West Creek Conservancy
(BOC Res. 410-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
Easement to property at Cedar Road (City of Cleveland Heights) — per Ord. 926-18 to
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (BOC Res. 412-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Easement to property at East 105th St. — per Ord. 927-18 to Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company (BOC Res. 411-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Board of Control — Economic Development Department
East 78th St., 2840 (PPN 124-29-046/047/058) — purchase for Industrial Commercial Land
Bank (BOC Res. 416-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Holton Ave., 8123 (PPN 126-27-070) — purchase for Industrial Commercial Land Bank
(BOC Res. 415-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

1722

October 10, 2018

The City Record

47

Board of Control — Finance Department
Easement right to PPN 131-24-005 for Morgana Bluffs Nature Preserve and Learning Center —
per Ord. 923-18 to Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland and West Creek Conservancy
(BOC Res. 410-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694

Board of Control — Land Acquisition
East 78th St., 2840 (PPN 124-29-046/047/058) — purchase for Industrial Commercial Land
Bank — Dept. of Economic Development (BOC Res. 416-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Holton Ave., 8123 (PPN 126-27-070) — purchase for Industrial Commercial Land Bank — Dept.
of Economic Development (BOC Res. 415-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 78th St., 2840 (PPN 124-29-046/047/058) — purchase for Industrial Commercial Land
Bank — Dept. of Economic Development (BOC Res. 416-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Holton Ave., 8123 (PPN 126-27-070) — purchase for Industrial Commercial Land Bank — Dept.
of Economic Development (BOC Res. 415-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward )
East 78th St., 2840 (PPN 124-29-046/047/058) — purchase for Industrial Commercial Land
Bank — Dept. of Economic Development (BOC Res. 416-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Holton Ave., 8123 (PPN 126-27-070) — purchase for Industrial Commercial Land Bank — Dept.
of Economic Development (BOC Res. 415-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Board of Control — Leases
Fee for use of City-owned Jetbridges at CHIA — amend BOC Res. 314-18 — Division of
Airports, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 403-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

Board of Control — Neighborhood Development Division
Storefront Renovation Program technical assistance — per Ord. 727-18 to Carolyn Smith Dept. of Community Development (BOC Res. 414-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Board of Control — Park Maintenance and Properties Division
Tree planting, 2018 city-wide (Group B) — per Ord. 288-17 — all bids rejected — Dept. of
Public Works (BOC Res. 413-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Carpeting tile — per Ord. 947-17 — all bids rejected (BOC Res. 406-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fee for use of City-owned Jetbridges at CHIA — amend BOC Res. 314-18 — Division of
Airports (BOC Res. 403-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landing Fee Module and Portal Core Software Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to PASSUR
Aerospace, Inc. — Division of Airports (BOC Res. 404-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landscaping, exterior site — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to The Greenleaf Group, Inc.
(BOC Res. 405-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking Rates at Burke Lakefront Airport, Marginal Road and lots — per Article 5.9
of Contract NF2012*023 — set rates — Division of Airports (BOC Res. 402-18) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
CIS/CRM and Oracle CC&B systems upgrades — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Ernst & Young U.S.,
LLP — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 400-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General engineering services — approve subcontractors — Contract #PS2018-055 — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 401-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landing Fee Module and Portal Core Software Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to PASSUR
Aerospace, Inc. — Division of Airports, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 404-18) . . . . . . . . . .
Storefront Renovation Program technical assistance — per Ord. 727-18 to Carolyn Smith Division of Neighborhood Development, Dept. of Community Development
(BOC Res. 414-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Work Order and Asset/Inventory Management System support, upgrades and maintenance —
per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Azteca Systems, LLC — Division of Water Pollution Control,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 399-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Brookfield Park Pavilion Site improvements, 2018 — per Ord. 348-18 to Perk Co., Inc. Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 408-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
Fire Station #4 Mechanical and Utilities Improvements — approve subcontractors — Contract
#PI2018*015 — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 407-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694

1723

The City Record

48

October 10, 2018

Room 518 Renovations — per Ord. 550-17 to Apex Construction and Management Company,
Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 409-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
CIS/CRM and Oracle CC&B systems upgrades — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Ernst & Young U.S.,
LLP — Division of Water (BOC Res. 400-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692
General engineering services — approve subcontractors — Contract #PS2018-055 — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 401-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692
Work Order and Asset/Inventory Management System support, upgrades and maintenance —
per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Azteca Systems, LLC — Division of Water Pollution Control
(BOC Res. 399-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Easement right to PPN 131-24-005 for Morgana Bluffs Nature Preserve and Learning Center —
per Ord. 923-18 to Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland and West Creek Conservancy
(BOC Res. 410-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Easement to property at Cedar Road (City of Cleveland Heights) — per Ord. 926-18 to
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (BOC Res. 412-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Easement to property at East 105th St. — per Ord. 927-18 to Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company (BOC Res. 411-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tree planting, 2018 city-wide (Group B) — per Ord. 288-17 — all bids rejected — Division
of Park Maintenance and Properties (BOC Res. 413-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Easement right to PPN 131-24-005 for Morgana Bluffs Nature Preserve and Learning Center —
per Ord. 923-18 to Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland and West Creek Conservancy
(BOC Res. 410-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Landscaping, exterior site — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to The Greenleaf Group, Inc. — Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 405-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694

Board of Control — Water Division
CIS/CRM and Oracle CC&B systems upgrades — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Ernst & Young U.S.,
LLP — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 400-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692
General engineering services — approve subcontractors — Contract #PS2018-055 — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 401-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Work Order and Asset/Inventory Management System support, upgrades and maintenance —
per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Azteca Systems, LLC — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 399-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bridge Avenue, 4118 (Ward 3) — Scott Francis, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/8/18 (Cal. 18-199) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 3229 (Ward 4) — Brian McAfee, owner — appeal heard on 10/8/18
(Cal. 18-200) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 142nd Street, 3449 (Ward 1) — Brittany Johnson, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/8/18 (Cal. 18-197) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road, 13701 (Ward 4) — Marantha Bible College, owner — appeal dismissed on
10/8/18 (Cal. 18-91). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Orchard Avenue, 4219 (Ward 3) — Pango Real Estate, owner — appeal postponed to 11/5/18
on 10/8/18 (Cal. 18-178) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 17th Street, 2062 (Ward 3) — Berges, owner — appeal heard on 10/8/18 (Cal. 18-203) . . .
West 19th Street, 2030 (Ward 3) — D.I. Rental LLC, owner — appeal heard on 10/8/18
(Cal. 18-202) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 20th Street, 2214 (Ward 3) — Horton & Harper Architects, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 10/8/18 (Cal. 18-191) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 50th Street, 1856 (Ward 15) — Stacey Smiley, owner — appeal postponed to 10/29/18
on 10/8/18 (Cal. 18-204) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th Street, 1322 (Ward 15) — Peter & Heather McLaughlin, owners — appeal heard on
10/8/18 (Cal. 18-192) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2338 (Ward 3) — Dave Kozyk, owner — appeal dismissed on 10/8/18
(Cal. 18-180) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
York Avenue, 2825 (Ward 3) — Lake City Dev. LLC, owner — appeal dismissed on
10/8/18 (Cal. 18-201) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1724

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697

October 10, 2018

The City Record

49

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Broadview Road, 4754 (Ward 13) — Joniko Enterprises, owner — appeal to be heard on
10/22/18 (Cal. 18-219) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Road, 12727 (Ward 6) — Blossom 24 Hour We Care Center, Inc., owner — appeal to
be heard on 10/22/18 (Cal. 18-215) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue, 3205 (Ward 12) — Dorothy Rieman, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/22/18
(Cal. 18-213) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th Street, 1484 (Ward 9) — Famicos Foundation, owner — appeal to be heard
on 10/22/18 (Cal. 18-212) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquis Avenue, 16501 (Ward 17) — Chris and Tami Marinella, owner — appeal to be heard
on 10/22/18 (Cal. 18-211) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Train Avenue, 4419 (Ward 3) — Train 4411, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/22/18
(Cal. 18-216) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 28th Street, 2165 (Ward 3) — Josh Harrell, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/22/18
(Cal. 18-214) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 46th Street, 3017 (Ward 3) — Worldwide Painting, owner — appeal to be heard
on 10/22/18 (Cal. 18-217) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 46th Street, 3021 (Ward 3) — Train 4411, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on
10/22/18 (Cal. 18-218) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696

Bridges
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to execute a deed of easement and a deed of
temporary easement granting to The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland
Metropolitan Park District certain easement rights in property needed for the Wendy
Park Bridge Project; declaring the easement rights not needed for the City’s public use;
and authorizing the director to enter into one or more agreements with the Cleveland
Metroparks to construct and maintain a portion of the Wendy Park Bridge on City
property. (O 1044-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1709

Burke Lakefront Airport
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with MarKenCami,
LLC for the lease of office space at Burke Lakefront Airport for the operation of a
software company, for a period of two years, with three one year options to renew, the
first of which is exercisable through additional legislative authority. (O 917-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with T & G Flying
Club, Inc. for the lease of space in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront
Airport for operation of a flight training school, aircraft rental program, and related
services for student pilots, for the Department of Port Control, for a period of one year,
with four one-year options to renew, the third of which is exercised by additional
legislative authority. (O 1106-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with Zone Aviation
for the lease of office space at Burke Lakefront Airport for the operation of a flight
training school, aircraft management, and pilot support services, for a period of two years,
with three one year options to renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional
legislative authority. (O 918-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

Capital Projects
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into maintenance, inspection and repair
agreement with and to issue a permit to The Board of Park Commissioners of the
Cleveland Metropolitan Park District to encroach into the public rights-of-way of Salt
Road and Riverbed Street by installing, using and maintaining the Wendy Park Bridge
and an asphalt all-purpose trail. (O 1046-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to execute a deed of easement and a deed of
temporary easement granting to The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland
Metropolitan Park District certain easement rights in property needed for the Wendy
Park Bridge Project; declaring the easement rights not needed for the City’s public use;
and authorizing the director to enter into one or more agreements with the Cleveland
Metroparks to construct and maintain a portion of the Wendy Park Bridge on City
property. (O 1044-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Case Western Reserve
University to encroach into the public rights-of-way of Euclid Avenue, East 115th Street,
and East 116th Street by installing, using, and maintaining fiber optic duct banks.
(O 1048-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Cavaliers Operating Company,
LLC to encroach into the public right-of-way of Huron Road by installing, using, and
maintaining a LED totem board and foundation. (O 1049-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Robert A. Hill to encroach into
the public right-of-way of the 1st un-named alley (10.00 feet wide) west of Bellaire Road
and north of Guardian Avenue by installing, using, and maintaining a hoop house and
urban garden. (O 1238-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Western Reserve Historical S
ociety/Cleveland History Center to encroach into the public rights-of-way of East 108th
Street and East Boulevard by installing, using, and maintaining lighting, underground
electrical conduit and sidewalk pavers. (O 1047-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1725

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1710

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1709

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1711

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1714

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1710

The City Record

50

October 10, 2018

Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2017-08 with Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. for the rehabilitation of East 152nd
Street from Woodworth Avenue to Waterloo Road. (O 1117-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring the intent to vacate a portion of East 103rd Street. (R 1236-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring the intent to vacate a portion of Freeman Avenue S.W. (R 1237-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the County of Cuyahoga for the improvement of
East 131st Street from Miles Avenue to Forestdale Drive in the Cities of Cleveland and
Garfield Heights; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into agreements;
to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds; and to
cause payment to the County for the City’s share of the improvement. (O 1119-18) . . . . . . . . .
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing portions
of Eddy Road and Shaw Avenue; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
any relative agreements; to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Funds for the improvement; and causing payment of the City’s share to the
County for the cost of the improvement. (O 1050-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1717
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1688
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1688

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1718

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1715

Case Western Reserve University ( CWRU )
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Case Western Reserve
University to encroach into the public rights-of-way of Euclid Avenue, East 115th Street,
and East 116th Street by installing, using, and maintaining fiber optic duct banks.
(O 1048-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1711

City of Garfield Heights
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the County of Cuyahoga for the improvement of
East 131st Street from Miles Avenue to Forestdale Drive in the Cities of Cleveland and
Garfield Heights; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into agreements;
to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds; and to
cause payment to the County for the City’s share of the improvement. (O 1119-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1718
To amend Sections 2 and 15 of Ordinance No. 628-17, passed June 5, 2017, relating to an
agreement with the City of Garfield Heights to make the public improvement of
reconstructing Johnston Parkway from McCracken Road to Velma Avenue. (O 1120-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1719

City of Cleveland Bids
Greenwood Park Pool House Renovation (Re-Bid) — Office of Capital Projects — Division of
Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 549-17 — bid due October 26, 2018
(advertised 10/3/2018 and 10/10/2018) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Music Hall Improvements Roof Repairs (Re-bid) — Office of Capital Projects — Division of
Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 733-14 — bid due November 2, 2018
(advertised 10/10/2018 and 10/17/2018) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing supplies — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per C.O.
Sec. 135.06 — bid due November 9, 2018 (advertised 10/10/2018 and 10/17/2018) . . . . . . . . . .
Upper Level Expansion Joints Rehabilitation, Phase 2 (Re-bid) — Department of Port
Control — Division of Airports — per Ord. 274-05 — bid due November 9, 2018
(advertised 10/3/2018 and 10/10/2018) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1699

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1699
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1700

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1699

City Planning Commission
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Robert A. Hill to encroach
into the public right-of-way of the 1st un-named alley (10.00 feet wide) west of Bellaire
Road and north of Guardian Avenue by installing, using, and maintaining a hoop house
and urban garden. (O 1238-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of City Planning to accept gift of preliminary plans and other
deliverables from YMCA for the update of the City’s Master Bikeway plan. (O 1030-18) . . . .
Changing the Use, Area, and Height Districts of parcels of land south of Pearl Road to
Montclair Avenue and East to Broadview Avenue and adding an Urban Form Overlay
along the principal corridors of Pearl Road, State Road, and Broadview Avenue (MC 2588).
(O 1247-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Use, Height and Area Districts of parcels fronting the northwestern section of
Franklin Circle between Dexter Place and West 28th Street as identified on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2587). (O 1027-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring the intent to vacate a portion of East 103rd Street. (R 1236-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring the intent to vacate a portion of Freeman Avenue S.W. (R 1237-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 325.03, 337.23, 343.23, 357.09, and 357.13 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by various ordinances, relating to side yard setbacks,
parking spaces sizes, residential garage placement and size, and conditional uses in the
Pedestrian Retail Overlay; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new
Section 325.431 relating to the definition of Lot Interior. (O 887-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1683

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1700
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1688
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1688

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1699

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with F & E Aircraft
Maintenance for the lease of certain space in Building No. 101 located at 19200 Primary
Road at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for the purpose of conducting aircraft
maintenance and other support services for various tenants at the airport, for the
Department of Port Control, for a period of one year, with four one-year options to renew,
the second of which shall require additional legislative authority. (O 671-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

1726

October 10, 2018

The City Record

Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with MRK Aviation
for the lease of certain space in Building No. 217 located at 6000 North Cargo Road at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for the purpose of conducting air cargo
operations and other support services for various tenants at the airport, for the
Department of Port Control, for a period of one year, with four one-year options to renew,
the second of which shall require additional legislative authority. (O 672-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more requirement contracts with
Siemens Industry, Inc. for labor and materials necessary to maintain, repair and expand
the existing Apogee building automation system, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of Port Control, for a period not to exceed two years,
with two one year options to renew, the first of which requires additional legislative
authority. (O 805-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to exercise the third option to renew Contract No.
PS 2014-10 with the United Services Organization, Inc. to provide for the operation of a US
military traveler support lounge at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department
of Port Control. (O 915-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more contracts of labor and materials needed to maintain,
repair, or replace existing EV-6 switchgear and transfer switches, for the Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control. (O 750-18) . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of replacing the cooling chiller
system and associated appurtenances at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport;
authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more public improvement
contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director to employ one or
more professional consultants necessary to design the Improvement. (O 748-18) . . . . . . . . . .

51

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

Cleveland Metroparks District
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into maintenance, inspection and repair
agreement with and to issue a permit to The Board of Park Commissioners of the
Cleveland Metropolitan Park District to encroach into the public rights-of-way of Salt
Road and Riverbed Street by installing, using and maintaining the Wendy Park Bridge
and an asphalt all-purpose trail. (O 1046-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1710
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to execute a deed of easement and a deed of
temporary easement granting to The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland
Metropolitan Park District certain easement rights in property needed for the Wendy
Park Bridge Project; declaring the easement rights not needed for the City’s public use;
and authorizing the director to enter into one or more agreements with the Cleveland
Metroparks to construct and maintain a portion of the Wendy Park Bridge on City
property. (O 1044-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1709
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to execute deeds of easement granting to The Board
of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District certain easement
rights in properties located north and south of Whiskey Island Drive; declaring that the
easement rights granted are not needed for public use; and authorizing the director to
enter into one or more agreements with the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and
maintain a portion of the Whiskey Island Connector on City property. (O 1031-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1707

Cleveland Municipal Court
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to apply for
and accept a grant from the Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of
Cuyahoga County for the 2018-19 Specialized Dockets Program; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals
to implement the grant. (O 1218-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

Codified Ordinances
To amend Section-181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 667-18, passed May 21, 2018, relating to authorization to purchase software
licenses, updates, upgrades, enhancements, training, technical support, maintenance and
repairs. (O 1183-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1720
To amend Section-185.36 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 792-03, passed June 10, 2003, relating to subcontractors. (O 1122-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1719
To amend Sections 325.03, 337.23, 343.23, 357.09, and 357.13 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by various ordinances, relating to side yard setbacks,
parking spaces sizes, residential garage placement and size, and conditional uses in the
Pedestrian Retail Overlay; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new
Section 325.431 relating to the definition of Lot Interior. (O 887-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1699

Community Development
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contracts with Cuyahoga
County and various non-profit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance
activities. (O 1105-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1716
To amend Section 2b of Ordinance No. 565-17, passed June 5, 2017, as amended by Ordinance
No. 658-18, passed May 21, 2018, relating to construction gap funding to encourage the
construction and rehabilitation of single family homes. (O 1185-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1720

1727

The City Record

52

October 10, 2018

Condolences
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence

Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution

for
for
for
for

Evon (Yvonne) Marcus. (R 1249-18)
May Della Riley. (R 1250-18) . . . . . .
Raymon Pointer. (R 1244-18) . . . . . .
Timothy A. Ferris. (R 1255-18) . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.1679
.1679
.1679
.1679

Congratulations
Congratulations Resolution for Ambassador Gabriel Issa. (R 1253-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679
Congratulations Resolution for Reverend Fr. Hady J. Mahfouz. (R 1252-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679
Congratulations Resolution for Vanessa Griffin Campbell. (R 1251-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679

Construction Gap Funding
To amend Section 2b of Ordinance No. 565-17, passed June 5, 2017, as amended by Ordinance
No. 658-18, passed May 21, 2018, relating to construction gap funding to encourage the
construction and rehabilitation of single family homes. (O 1185-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1720

Contracts
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contracts with Cuyahoga
County and various non-profit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance
activities. (O 1105-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more contracts with the Cleveland
Cuyahoga County Port Authority to provide technical assistance and to procure a
comprehensive maritime infrastructure assessment of the City owned properties
commonly known as Docks 28b, 30, 32 and the North Coast Harbor. (O 1032-18) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more requirement contracts with
Siemens Industry, Inc. for labor and materials necessary to maintain, repair and expand
the existing Apogee building automation system, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of Port Control, for a period not to exceed two years,
with two one year options to renew, the first of which requires additional legislative
authority. (O 805-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to exercise the third option to renew Contract No.
PS 2014-10 with the United Services Organization, Inc. to provide for the operation of a
US military traveler support lounge at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control. (O 915-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first option to renew Contract No.
MA 1505 RC 2017-19 with Underwater Marine Contractors, Inc. to provide for diving and
underwater inspection services. (O 1040-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first options to renew various
contracts for the requirements for labor and materials for maintenance of backup
generator power supply systems including motors, generators and appurtenances and for
diesel filtration, testing and maintenance program for off road diesel storage tanks, for
the Department of Public Utilities. (O 1039-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Workforce Development to apply for, accept and expend funds and
resources from the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services, or other fiscal agents, for
the 2018 Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and Workforce Development
Program grants; to enter into contracts and memoranda of understanding with various
entities necessary to administer and implement the Workforce Development programs;
to enter into one or more agreements with Cuyahoga County, or other fiscal agents, to
accept monies for implementation of the programs; and to sublease areas at
OhioMeansJobs Cleveland Cuyahoga County One Stop Service Center, located at 1910
Carnegie Avenue. (O 1240-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more contracts of labor and materials needed to maintain,
repair, or replace existing EV-6 switchgear and transfer switches, for the Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control. (O 750-18) . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of recycled or virgin asphalt
concrete, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Works. (O 1108-18) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of valves, actuators, and
appurtenances, and labor and materials needed to repair, replace, maintain, exercise, and
test valves, actuators and appurtenances, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two years. (O 1111-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1716

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1680

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1716

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1716

Cooperative Agreement
Approving the addition of certain property to the Northeast Ohio Advanced Energy District;
accepting and approving a petition and plan from a property owner in the District
identifying a special energy improvement project, declaring it necessary to conduct the
special energy improvement project providing for the assessment of the cost and expense
of such special energy improvement project; and authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into an Energy Project Cooperative Agreement and a Special
Assessment Agreement to implement the project; and declaring an emergency. (O 1112-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

1728

October 10, 2018

The City Record

53

Cuyahoga County
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to apply for
and accept a grant from the Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of
Cuyahoga County for the 2018-19 Specialized Dockets Program; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals
to implement the grant. (O 1218-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Workforce Development to apply for, accept and expend funds and
resources from the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services, or other fiscal agents, for
the 2018 Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and Workforce Development Program
grants; to enter into contracts and memoranda of understanding with various entities
necessary to administer and implement the Workforce Development programs; to enter
into one or more agreements with Cuyahoga County, or other fiscal agents, to accept
monies for implementation of the programs; and to sublease areas at OhioMeansJobs
Cleveland Cuyahoga County One Stop Service Center, located at 1910 Carnegie Avenue.
(O 1240-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the County of Cuyahoga for the improvement of
East 131st Street from Miles Avenue to Forestdale Drive in the Cities of Cleveland and
Garfield Heights; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into agreements;
to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds; and to
cause payment to the County for the City’s share of the improvement. (O 1119-18) . . . . . . . . .
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing portions
of Eddy Road and Shaw Avenue; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
any relative agreements; to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Funds for the improvement; and causing payment of the City’s share to the
County for the cost of the improvement. (O 1050-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1680

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1718

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1715

Cuyahoga County Port Authority
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more contracts with the Cleveland
Cuyahoga County Port Authority to provide technical assistance and to procure a
comprehensive maritime infrastructure assessment of the City owned properties
commonly known as Docks 28b, 30, 32 and the North Coast Harbor. (O 1032-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

Dues
Authorizing payment of membership dues of the City of Cleveland in the Northeast Ohio
Areawide Coordinating Agency for 2019. (O 1219-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

Easements
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to execute a deed of easement and a deed of
temporary easement granting to The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland
Metropolitan Park District certain easement rights in property needed for the Wendy
Park Bridge Project; declaring the easement rights not needed for the City’s public use;
and authorizing the director to enter into one or more agreements with the Cleveland
Metroparks to construct and maintain a portion of the Wendy Park Bridge on City
property. (O 1044-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1709
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to execute deeds of easement granting to The Board
of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District certain easement
rights in properties located north and south of Whiskey Island Drive; declaring that the
easement rights granted are not needed for public use; and authorizing the director to
enter into one or more agreements with the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and
maintain a portion of the Whiskey Island Connector on City property. (O 1031-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1707

East Side Market
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Urban Development Action
Grant agreement with the Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., or its
designee, to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the
redevelopment of the East Side Market. (O 1033-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

Economic Development Department
Approving the addition of certain property to the Northeast Ohio Advanced Energy District;
accepting and approving a petition and plan from a property owner in the District
identifying a special energy improvement project, declaring it necessary to conduct the
special energy improvement project providing for the assessment of the cost and expense
of such special energy improvement project; and authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into an Energy Project Cooperative Agreement and a Special
Assessment Agreement to implement the project; and declaring an emergency. (O 1112-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment to
Empowerment Zone Loan Agreement No. 58774 with Eliza Bryant Village to forgive the
balance of the payments. (O 1243-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1683
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Urban Development Action
Grant agreement with the Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., or its
designee, to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the
redevelopment of the East Side Market. (O 1033-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

1729

The City Record

54

October 10, 2018

Encroachments
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into maintenance, inspection and repair
agreement with and to issue a permit to The Board of Park Commissioners of the
Cleveland Metropolitan Park District to encroach into the public rights-of-way of Salt
Road and Riverbed Street by installing, using and maintaining the Wendy Park Bridge
and an asphalt all-purpose trail. (O 1046-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Case Western Reserve
University to encroach into the public rights-of-way of Euclid Avenue, East 115th Street,
and East 116th Street by installing, using, and maintaining fiber optic duct banks.
(O 1048-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Cavaliers Operating Company,
LLC to encroach into the public right-of-way of Huron Road by installing, using, and
maintaining a LED totem board and foundation. (O 1049-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Robert A. Hill to encroach
into the public right-of-way of the 1st un-named alley (10.00 feet wide) west of Bellaire
Road and north of Guardian Avenue by installing, using, and maintaining a hoop house
and urban garden. (O 1238-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Western Reserve Historical
Society/Cleveland History Center to encroach into the public rights-of-way of East 108th
Street and East Boulevard by installing, using, and maintaining lighting, underground
electrical conduit and sidewalk pavers. (O 1047-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1710

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1711

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1714

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1710

Finance Department
Authorizing payment of membership dues of the City of Cleveland in the Northeast Ohio
Areawide Coordinating Agency for 2019. (O 1219-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to apply for
and accept a grant from the Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of
Cuyahoga County for the 2018-19 Specialized Dockets Program; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals
to implement the grant. (O 1218-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Section 25 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended by various
ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 1113-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Section 2b of Ordinance No. 565-17, passed June 5, 2017, as amended by Ordinance
No. 658-18, passed May 21, 2018, relating to construction gap funding to encourage the
construction and rehabilitation of single family homes. (O 1185-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Section-181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 667-18, passed May 21, 2018, relating to authorization to purchase software
licenses, updates, upgrades, enhancements, training, technical support, maintenance and
repairs. (O 1183-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Section-185.36 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 792-03, passed June 10, 2003, relating to subcontractors. (O 1122-18) . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 16 and 35 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended,
regarding compensation for various classifications. (O 1217-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 58 and 59 of Ordinance No. 323-18, passed March 30, 2015, as amended by
various ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 1114-18) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1720

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1720
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1719
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

Gifts
Authorizing the Director of City Planning to accept gift of preliminary plans and other
deliverables from YMCA for the update of the City’s Master Bikeway plan. (O 1030-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

Grant Agreement
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Urban Development Action
Grant agreement with the Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., or its
designee, to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the
redevelopment of the East Side Market. (O 1033-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

Grants
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to apply for
and accept a grant from the Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of
Cuyahoga County for the 2018-19 Specialized Dockets Program; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals
to implement the grant. (O 1218-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691
Authorizing the Director of Public Health to apply for and accept a grant from the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources & Services Administration
for the Healthy Start Initiative: Eliminating Disparities in Perinatal Health for the Moms
First Project; authorizing the purchase or lease of television and radio advertising time
and other media; and to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies entities,
and individuals, to implement the project. (O 1239-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1680

1730

October 10, 2018

The City Record

55

Authorizing the Director of Public Works to apply for and accept a grant from the Ohio
Department of Education for the 2019 Summer Food Service Program; authorizing the
purchase by requirement contract of breakfasts and lunches and for food, food products,
beverages, condiments and paper products to implement the grant, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Public Works; and authorizing the Director to contract with
various non-profit organizations for the implementation of the Program. (O 1241-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1682

Health Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Health to apply for and accept a grant from the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources & Services Administration
for the Healthy Start Initiative: Eliminating Disparities in Perinatal Health for the Moms
First Project; authorizing the purchase or lease of television and radio advertising time
and other media; and to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies entities,
and individuals, to implement the project. (O 1239-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1680

Homeless
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contracts with Cuyahoga
County and various non-profit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance
activities. (O 1105-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1716

Hud 108 Loan
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment to
Empowerment Zone Loan Agreement No. 58774 with Eliza Bryant Village to forgive the
balance of the payments. (O 1243-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1683

Human Resources Department
To amend Section 25 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended by various
ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 1113-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691
To amend Sections 16 and 35 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended,
regarding compensation for various classifications. (O 1217-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691
To amend Sections 58 and 59 of Ordinance No. 323-18, passed March 30,2 015, as amended by
various ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 1114-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

Lease Agreement
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with F & E Aircraft
Maintenance for the lease of certain space in Building No. 101 located at 19200 Primary
Road at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for the purpose of conducting aircraft
maintenance and other support services for various tenants at the airport, for the
Department of Port Control, for a period of one year, with four one-year options to renew,
the second of which shall require additional legislative authority. (O 671-18) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with MarKenCami,
LLC for the lease of office space at Burke Lakefront Airport for the operation of a
software company, for a period of two years, with three one year options to renew, the
first of which is exercisable through additional legislative authority. (O 917-18) . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with MRK Aviation
for the lease of certain space in Building No. 217 located at 6000 North Cargo Road at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for the purpose of conducting air cargo
operations and other support services for various tenants at the airport, for the
Department of Port Control, for a period of one year, with four one-year options to renew,
the second of which shall require additional legislative authority. (O 672-18) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with T & G Flying
Club, Inc. for the lease of space in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront
Airport for operation of a flight training school, aircraft rental program, and related
services for student pilots, for the Department of Port Control, for a period of one year,
with four one-year options to renew, the third of which is exercised by additional
legislative authority. (O 1106-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with Zone Aviation
for the lease of office space at Burke Lakefront Airport for the operation of a flight
training school, aircraft management, and pilot support services, for a period of two
years, with three one year options to renew, the first of which is exercisable through
additional legislative authority. (O 918-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

Liquor Permits
#5930856. Stock Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6. Midwest Entertainment Venture LLC, 1299
West 9th St. (Ward 3). (X 1248-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#8727041. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2 D6. Swami Bapa 98 LLC, 11022 Clifton Blvd.
(Ward 15). (X 1234-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#9526244. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. West 25th Metro Gas, Inc., 3474 West
25th St. (Ward 14). (X 1235-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 3984 Lee Road. (R 1224-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit to 3895 Lee Road. (R 1245-18) . . . . .

1731

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1700
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1689

The City Record

56

October 10, 2018

Memoranda of Understanding ( M.O.U )
Authorizing the Director of Workforce Development to apply for, accept and expend funds and
resources from the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services, or other fiscal agents,
for the 2018 Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and Workforce Development
Program grants; to enter into contracts and memoranda of understanding with various
entities necessary to administer and implement the Workforce Development programs;
to enter into one or more agreements with Cuyahoga County, or other fiscal agents, to
accept monies for implementation of the programs; and to sublease areas at
OhioMeansJobs Cleveland Cuyahoga County One Stop Service Center, located at 1910
Carnegie Avenue. (O 1240-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1680

Northeast Ohio Advanced Energy District
Approving the addition of certain property to the Northeast Ohio Advanced Energy District;
accepting and approving a petition and plan from a property owner in the District
identifying a special energy improvement project, declaring it necessary to conduct the
special energy improvement project providing for the assessment of the cost and expense
of such special energy improvement project; and authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into an Energy Project Cooperative Agreement and a Special
Assessment Agreement to implement the project; and declaring an emergency. (O 1112-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA )
Authorizing payment of membership dues of the City of Cleveland in the Northeast Ohio
Areawide Coordinating Agency for 2019. (O 1219-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc.
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Urban Development Action
Grant agreement with the Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., or its
designee, to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the
redevelopment of the East Side Market. (O 1033-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

Ohio Department of Education
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to apply for and accept a grant from the Ohio
Department of Education for the 2019 Summer Food Service Program; authorizing the
purchase by requirement contract of breakfasts and lunches and for food, food products,
beverages, condiments and paper products to implement the grant, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Public Works; and authorizing the Director to contract with
various non-profit organizations for the implementation of the Program. (O 1241-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1682

Ohio Department of Job and Family Services
Authorizing the Director of Workforce Development to apply for, accept and expend funds and
resources from the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services, or other fiscal agents, for
the 2018 Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and Workforce Development Program
grants; to enter into contracts and memoranda of understanding with various entities
necessary to administer and implement the Workforce Development programs; to enter
into one or more agreements with Cuyahoga County, or other fiscal agents, to accept
monies for implementation of the programs; and to sublease areas at OhioMeansJobs
Cleveland Cuyahoga County One Stop Service Center, located at 1910 Carnegie Avenue.
(O 1240-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1680

Permits
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into maintenance, inspection and repair
agreement with and to issue a permit to The Board of Park Commissioners of the
Cleveland Metropolitan Park District to encroach into the public rights-of-way of Salt
Road and Riverbed Street by installing, using and maintaining the Wendy Park Bridge
and an asphalt all-purpose trail. (O 1046-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Case Western Reserve
University to encroach into the public rights-of-way of Euclid Avenue, East 115th Street,
and East 116th Street by installing, using, and maintaining fiber optic duct banks.
(O 1048-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Cavaliers Operating Company,
LLC to encroach into the public right-of-way of Huron Road by installing, using, and
maintaining a LED totem board and foundation. (O 1049-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Robert A. Hill to encroach into
the public right-of-way of the 1st un-named alley (10.00 feet wide) west of Bellaire Road
and north of Guardian Avenue by installing, using, and maintaining a hoop house and
urban garden. (O 1238-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Western Reserve Historical
Society/Cleveland History Center to encroach into the public rights-of-way of East 108th
Street and East Boulevard by installing, using, and maintaining lighting, underground
electrical conduit and sidewalk pavers. (O 1047-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1732

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1710

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1711

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1714

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1710

October 10, 2018

The City Record

57

Port Control Department
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide quality assurance and surveying services for airport related projects, for a period
of one year, with three one year options to renew, the second of which requires additional
legislation. (O 1107-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with F & E Aircraft
Maintenance for the lease of certain space in Building No. 101 located at 19200 Primary
Road at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for the purpose of conducting aircraft
maintenance and other support services for various tenants at the airport, for the
Department of Port Control, for a period of one year, with four one-year options to renew,
the second of which shall require additional legislative authority. (O 671-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with MarKenCami,
LLC for the lease of office space at Burke Lakefront Airport for the operation of a
software company, for a period of two years, with three one year options to renew, the
first of which is exercisable through additional legislative authority. (O 917-18) . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with MRK Aviation
for the lease of certain space in Building No. 217 located at 6000 North Cargo Road at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for the purpose of conducting air cargo
operations and other support services for various tenants at the airport, for the
Department of Port Control, for a period of one year, with four one-year options to renew,
the second of which shall require additional legislative authority. (O 672-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with T & G Flying
Club, Inc. for the lease of space in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront
Airport for operation of a flight training school, aircraft rental program, and related
services for student pilots, for the Department of Port Control, for a period of one year,
with four one-year options to renew, the third of which is exercised by additional
legislative authority. (O 1106-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with Zone Aviation
for the lease of office space at Burke Lakefront Airport for the operation of a flight
training school, aircraft management, and pilot support services, for a period of two years,
with three one year options to renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional
legislative authority. (O 918-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more contracts with the Cleveland
Cuyahoga County Port Authority to provide technical assistance and to procure a
comprehensive maritime infrastructure assessment of the City owned properties
commonly known as Docks 28b, 30, 32 and the North Coast Harbor. (O 1032-18) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more requirement contracts with
Siemens Industry, Inc. for labor and materials necessary to maintain, repair and expand
the existing Apogee building automation system, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of Port Control, for a period not to exceed two years,
with two one year options to renew, the first of which requires additional legislative
authority. (O 805-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to exercise the third option to renew Contract No.
PS 2014-10 with the United Services Organization, Inc. to provide for the operation of a US
military traveler support lounge at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department
of Port Control. (O 915-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more contracts of labor and materials needed to maintain,
repair, or replace existing EV-6 switchgear and transfer switches, for the Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control. (O 750-18) . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of repairing, maintaining, and
installing asphalt on runways, taxiways, ramps, roadways and other surfaces for the
various divisions of the Department of Port Control, and authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into one or more public improvement requirement contracts for the
making of the improvement, for a period of two years, with two one year options to renew,
the first of which shall require additional legislative authority. (O 1242-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of replacing the cooling chiller
system and associated appurtenances at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport;
authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more public improvement
contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director to employ one or
more professional consultants necessary to design the Improvement. (O 748-18) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1682

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

Professional Services
Determining the method of making the public improvement of demolishing the existing pump
station, constructing a new one, and making site improvements; authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public improvement contracts; and authorizing
the director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the improvement.
(O 1038-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

Professional Services Contracts
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2017-08 with Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. for the rehabilitation of East 152nd
Street from Woodworth Avenue to Waterloo Road. (O 1117-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1717
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide quality assurance and surveying services for airport related projects, for a period
of one year, with three one year options to renew, the second of which requires additional
legislation. (O 1107-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

1733

The City Record

58

October 10, 2018

Determining the method of making the public improvement of replacing the cooling chiller
system and associated appurtenances at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport;
authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more public improvement
contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director to employ one or
more professional consultants necessary to design the Improvement. (O 748-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

Public Hearings (Notices)
To amend Sections 325.03, 337.23, 343.23, 357.09, and 357.13 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by various ordinances, relating to side yard setbacks,
parking spaces sizes, residential garage placement and size, and conditional uses in the
Pedestrian Retail Overlay; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new
Section 325.431 relating to the definition of Lot Interior. (O 887-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1699

Public Improvement Contracts
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. CT 7004 PI 2017-54 with Apex Construction and Management Company, Inc. for the
repair to the pool ceiling at the JFK Recreation Center. (O 1118-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2017-42 with KMU Trucking & Excavating, Inc. for the Thrush Avenue sewer
replacement project. (O 1041-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of demolishing the existing pump
station, constructing a new one, and making site improvements; authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public improvement contracts; and
authorizing the director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement. (O 1038-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of repairing, maintaining, and
installing asphalt on runways, taxiways, ramps, roadways and other surfaces for the
arious divisions of the Department of Port Control, and authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into one or more public improvement requirement contracts for the
making of the improvement, for a period of two years, with two one year options to renew,
the first of which shall require additional legislative authority. (O 1242-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of replacing the cooling chiller
system and associated appurtenances at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport;
authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more public improvement
contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director to employ one or
more professional consultants necessary to design the Improvement. (O 748-18) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1717

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1682

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

Public Improvements
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2017-08 with Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. for the rehabilitation of East 152nd
Street from Woodworth Avenue to Waterloo Road. (O 1117-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the County of Cuyahoga for the improvement of
East 131st Street from Miles Avenue to Forestdale Drive in the Cities of Cleveland and
Garfield Heights; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into agreements;
to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds; and to
cause payment to the County for the City’s share of the improvement. (O 1119-18) . . . . . . . . .
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing portions
of Eddy Road and Shaw Avenue; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
any relative agreements; to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Funds for the improvement; and causing payment of the City’s share to the
County for the cost of the improvement. (O 1050-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 2 and 15 of Ordinance No. 628-17, passed June 5, 2017, relating to an
agreement with the City of Garfield Heights to make the public improvement of
reconstructing Johnston Parkway from McCracken Road to Velma Avenue. (O 1120-18) . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1717

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1718

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1715

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1719

Public Works
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to purchase property located at 7501
Madison Avenue needed for expanding the Lawn Madison Park, for the Department of
Public Works. (O 1116-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to apply for and accept a grant from the Ohio
Department of Education for the 2019 Summer Food Service Program; authorizing the
purchase by requirement contract of breakfasts and lunches and for food, food products,
beverages, condiments and paper products to implement the grant, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Public Works; and authorizing the Director to contract with
various non-profit organizations for the implementation of the Program. (O 1241-18) . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to execute deeds of easement granting to The Board
of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District certain easement
rights in properties located north and south of Whiskey Island Drive; declaring that the
easement rights granted are not needed for public use; and authorizing the director to
enter into one or more agreements with the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and
maintain a portion of the Whiskey Island Connector on City property. (O 1031-18) . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of recycled or virgin asphalt
concrete, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Works. (O 1108-18) . . . . . . . . . . . .

1734

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1682

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1707
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1716

October 10, 2018

The City Record

59

Purchases and Supplies Division
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to purchase property located at 7501
Madison Avenue needed for expanding the Lawn Madison Park, for the Department of
Public Works. (O 1116-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

Recognition
Recognition Resolution for Paul Hanna. (R 1254-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679

Recreation Centers
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. CT 7004 PI 2017-54 with Apex Construction and Management Company, Inc. for the
repair to the pool ceiling at the JFK Recreation Center. (O 1118-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1717

Resolution of Support
Urging the U.S. Postal Service to expand and enhance existing services such as check cashing
and international money transfers, and to take necessary steps towards designing and
implementing additional financial services. (R 1246-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1689

Salaries
To amend Section 25 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended by various
ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 1113-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691
To amend Sections 16 and 35 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended,
regarding compensation for various classifications. (O 1217-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691
To amend Sections 58 and 59 of Ordinance No. 323-18, passed March 30, 2015, as amended by
various ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 1114-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

Sewers
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2017-42 with KMU Trucking & Excavating, Inc. for the Thrush Avenue sewer
replacement project. (O 1041-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

Street Vacation
Declaring the intent to vacate a portion of East 103rd Street. (R 1236-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1688
Declaring the intent to vacate a portion of Freeman Avenue S.W. (R 1237-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1688

Streets Division
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of recycled or virgin asphalt
concrete, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Works. (O 1108-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1716

Summer Food Program
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to apply for and accept a grant from the Ohio
Department of Education for the 2019 Summer Food Service Program; authorizing the
purchase by requirement contract of breakfasts and lunches and for food, food products,
beverages, condiments and paper products to implement the grant, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Public Works; and authorizing the Director to contract with
various non-profit organizations for the implementation of the Program. (O 1241-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1682

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Authorizing the Director of Public Health to apply for and accept a grant from the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources & Services Administration
for the Healthy Start Initiative: Eliminating Disparities in Perinatal Health for the Moms
First Project; authorizing the purchase or lease of television and radio advertising time
and other media; and to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies entities,
and individuals, to implement the project. (O 1239-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1680

U.S. Postal Service
Urging the U.S. Postal Service to expand and enhance existing services such as check cashing
and international money transfers, and to take necessary steps towards designing and
implementing additional financial services. (R 1246-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1689

Utilities Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first option to renew Contract No.
MA 1505 RC 2017-19 with Underwater Marine Contractors, Inc. to provide for diving and
underwater inspection services. (O 1040-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

1735

The City Record

60

October 10, 2018

Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first options to renew various
contracts for the requirements for labor and materials for maintenance of backup
generator power supply systems including motors, generators and appurtenances and for
diesel filtration, testing and maintenance program for off road diesel storage tanks, for
the Department of Public Utilities. (O 1039-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2017-42 with KMU Trucking & Excavating, Inc. for the Thrush Avenue sewer
replacement project. (O 1041-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of valves, actuators, and
appurtenances, and labor and materials needed to repair, replace, maintain, exercise, and
test valves, actuators and appurtenances, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two years. (O 1111-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of demolishing the existing pump
station, constructing a new one, and making site improvements; authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public improvement contracts; and
authorizing the director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement. (O 1038-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1716

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691

Ward 01
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. CT 7004 PI 2017-54 with Apex Construction and Management Company, Inc. for the
repair to the pool ceiling at the JFK Recreation Center. (O 1118-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Condolence Resolution for May Della Riley. (R 1250-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 3984 Lee Road. (R 1224-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit to 3895 Lee Road. (R 1245-18) . . . . .
To amend Sections 2 and 15 of Ordinance No. 628-17, passed June 5, 2017, relating to an
agreement with the City of Garfield Heights to make the public improvement of
reconstructing Johnston Parkway from McCracken Road to Velma Avenue. (O 1120-18) . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.1717
.1679
.1700
.1689

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1719

Ward 03
#5930856. Stock Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6. Midwest Entertainment Venture LLC, 1299
West 9th St. (Ward 3). (X 1248-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Cavaliers Operating Company,
LLC to encroach into the public right-of-way of Huron Road by installing, using, and
maintaining a LED totem board and foundation. (O 1049-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more contracts with the Cleveland
Cuyahoga County Port Authority to provide technical assistance and to procure a
comprehensive maritime infrastructure assessment of the City owned properties
commonly known as Docks 28b, 30, 32 and the North Coast Harbor. (O 1032-18) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Use, Height and Area Districts of parcels fronting the northwestern section of
Franklin Circle between Dexter Place and West 28th Street as identified on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2587). (O 1027-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for Ambassador Gabriel Issa. (R 1253-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for Reverend Fr. Hady J. Mahfouz. (R 1252-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring the intent to vacate a portion of Freeman Avenue S.W. (R 1237-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for Paul Hanna. (R 1254-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1714

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.1700
.1679
.1679
.1688
.1679

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.1711
.1679
.1679
.1688

Ward 06
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Case Western Reserve
University to encroach into the public rights-of-way of Euclid Avenue, East 115th Street,
and East 116th Street by installing, using, and maintaining fiber optic duct banks.
(O 1048-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Condolence Resolution for Evon (Yvonne) Marcus. (R 1249-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Condolence Resolution for Raymon Pointer. (R 1244-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring the intent to vacate a portion of East 103rd Street. (R 1236-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

Ward 07
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment to
Empowerment Zone Loan Agreement No. 58774 with Eliza Bryant Village to forgive the
balance of the payments. (O 1243-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1683

Ward 08
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2017-08 with Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. for the rehabilitation of East 152nd
Street from Woodworth Avenue to Waterloo Road. (O 1117-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1717

Ward 09
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Western Reserve Historical
Society/Cleveland History Center to encroach into the public rights-of-way of East 108th
Street and East Boulevard by installing, using, and maintaining lighting, underground
electrical conduit and sidewalk pavers. (O 1047-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1710

1736

October 10, 2018

The City Record

61

Ward 10
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing portions
of Eddy Road and Shaw Avenue; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
any relative agreements; to apply for and accept an allocation of County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Funds for the improvement; and causing payment of the City’s share to the
County for the cost of the improvement. (O 1050-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1715

Ward 11
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Robert A. Hill to encroach into
the public right-of-way of the 1st un-named alley (10.00 feet wide) west of Bellaire Road
and north of Guardian Avenue by installing, using, and maintaining a hoop house and
urban garden. (O 1238-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2017-42 with KMU Trucking & Excavating, Inc. for the Thrush Avenue sewer
replacement project. (O 1041-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708

Ward 13
Changing the Use, Area, and Height Districts of parcels of land south of Pearl Road to
Montclair Avenue and East to Broadview Avenue and adding an Urban Form Overlay
along the principal corridors of Pearl Road, State Road, and Broadview Avenue
(MC 2588). (O 1247-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for Ambassador Gabriel Issa. (R 1253-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for Reverend Fr. Hady J. Mahfouz. (R 1252-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for Vanessa Griffin Campbell. (R 1251-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for Paul Hanna. (R 1254-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.1683
.1679
.1679
.1679
.1679

Ward 14
#9526244. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. West 25th Metro Gas, Inc., 3474 West
25th St. (Ward 14). (X 1235-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679
Condolence Resolution for Timothy A. Ferris. (R 1255-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679

Ward 15
#8727041. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2 D6. Swami Bapa 98 LLC, 11022 Clifton Blvd.
(Ward 15). (X 1234-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1679
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to purchase property located at 7501
Madison Avenue needed for expanding the Lawn Madison Park, for the Department of
Public Works. (O 1116-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1691
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to execute deeds of easement granting to The Board
of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District certain easement
rights in properties located north and south of Whiskey Island Drive; declaring that the
easement rights granted are not needed for public use; and authorizing the director to
enter into one or more agreements with the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and
maintain a portion of the Whiskey Island Connector on City property. (O 1031-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1707

Water Division
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first option to renew Contract No.
MA 1505 RC 2017-19 with Underwater Marine Contractors, Inc. to provide for diving and
underwater inspection services. (O 1040-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1708
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of valves, actuators, and
appurtenances, and labor and materials needed to repair, replace, maintain, exercise,
and test valves, actuators and appurtenances, for the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two years. (O 1111-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1716

Western Reserve Historical Society
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Western Reserve Historical
Society/Cleveland History Center to encroach into the public rights-of-way of East 108th
Street and East Boulevard by installing, using, and maintaining lighting, underground
electrical conduit and sidewalk pavers. (O 1047-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1710

Workforce Development
Authorizing the Director of Workforce Development to apply for, accept and expend funds
and resources from the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services, or other fiscal
agents, for the 2018 Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and Workforce
Development Program grants; to enter into contracts and memoranda of understanding
with various entities necessary to administer and implement the Workforce Development
programs; to enter into one or more agreements with Cuyahoga County, or other fiscal
agents, to accept monies for implementation of the programs; and to sublease areas at
OhioMeansJobs Cleveland Cuyahoga County One Stop Service Center, located at 1910
Carnegie Avenue. (O 1240-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1680

1737

The City Record

62

October 10, 2018

YMCA
Authorizing the Director of City Planning to accept gift of preliminary plans and other
deliverables from YMCA for the update of the City’s Master Bikeway plan. (O 1030-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1690

Zoning
Changing the Use, Area, and Height Districts of parcels of land south of Pearl Road to
Montclair Avenue and East to Broadview Avenue and adding an Urban Form Overlay
along the principal corridors of Pearl Road, State Road, and Broadview Avenue
(MC 2588). (O 1247-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1683
Changing the Use, Height and Area Districts of parcels fronting the northwestern section of
Franklin Circle between Dexter Place and West 28th Street as identified on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2587). (O 1027-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1700
To amend Sections 325.03, 337.23, 343.23, 357.09, and 357.13 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by various ordinances, relating to side yard setbacks,
parking spaces sizes, residential garage placement and size, and conditional uses in the
Pedestrian Retail Overlay; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new
Section 325.431 relating to the definition of Lot Interior. (O 887-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1699

1738

