The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

March the Twenty-Eighth Two Thousand and Eighteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

15

Board of Control

15

Civil Service

18

1 Joseph T. Jones

Board of Zoning Appeals

24

2 Kevin L. Bishop
3 Kerry McCormack

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
25

4 Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr.

Public Notice

27

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

27

6 Blaine A. Griffin

City of Cleveland Bids

27

7 Basheer S. Jones

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

27

Committee Meetings

33

Index

34

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Anthony T. Hairston
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Jasmin Santana
15 Matt Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones...................................................4691 East 177th Street
44128
Kevin L. Bishop...............................................11729 Miles Avenue, #5
44105
Kerry McCormack ..............................................1429 West 38th Street
44113
Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr. ........................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44115
Blaine A. Griffin.........................................1810 Larchmere Boulevard
44120
Basheer S. Jones...................................................1383 East 94th Street
44106
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Anthony T. Hairston .....................................................423 Arbor Road
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Jasmin Santana......................................................3535 Marvin Avenue
44109
Matt Zone ............................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Sharon Dumas, Interim Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Matt Gray, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Duane Deskins, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Prevention, Intervention and
Opportunity for Youth and Young Adults
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – _________________ Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
OFFICE OF QUALITY CONTROL AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT – Sabra
T. Pierce-Scott, Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Kimberly Roy-Wilson,
Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Robert Kennedy, Director, Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Kim Johnson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Merle Gordon, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – David Hearne, Interim Commissioner
Environment – Brian Kimball, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Persis Sosiak, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Interim Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – David Carroll, Interim Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield
Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Angelo Calvillo, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Louise Jackson, Interim Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Joy Anderson, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –James Greene, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ayonna Blue Donald, Interim Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole West, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – David Ebersole, Interim Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Mary McNamara, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Grady Stevenson, Interim Director,
Mayor Frank G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., ViceChairman, Council Member Kevin L. Bishop, Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras,
Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary Johnson, Sr.,
Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa Ryan, Council
Member Jasmin Santana, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Rev. Gregory E. Jordan, President; Michael
Flickinger, Vice-President; Barry A. Withers, Interim Secretary; Members: Daniel J.
Brennan, India Pierce Lee.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Henry Bailey, Myrline Barnes, Kelley Britt, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Public Utilities Director Robert L. Davis; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director;
_______________, Chair; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Council
Member Kerry McCormack._________________, ___________________.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – _____________, Chair; Genesis O. Brown, Daniel Conway,
Robert L. Render.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Julie Trott, Chair; Giancarlo
Calicchia, Vice Chair; Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Robert
Strickland, Donald Petit, Secretary, Council Member Basheer S. Jones, Matthew L.
Spronz; __________________, _________________, ________________.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Michelle D. Earley
14-C
Judge Pinkey S. Carr
15-C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
13-A
Judge Emanuella Groves
14-B
Judge Lauren C. Moore
15-A
Judge Michael L. Nelson, Sr.
12-A
Judge Ann Clare Oakar
14-A
Judge Ronald J.H. O’Leary (Housing Court Judge)
13-B
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13-D
Judge Suzan M. Sweeney
12-C
Judge Jazmin Torres-Lugo
13-C
Judge Shiela Turner McCall
12-B
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14-D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Timothy
Lubbe – Housing Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda – Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief
Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

Vol. 105

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018

No. 5442

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2018-2021
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Griffin
(CHAIR),
McCormack
(VICECHAIR), Conwell, B. Jones, Hairston, Santana, Zone.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR), Bishop, Brancatelli, Hairston, J. Jones, Kazy.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley
(CHAIR),
Zone
(VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell,
Griffin,
Keane,
McCormack.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, B.
Jones, Keane, McCormack.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Kazy
(VICECHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, McCormack, Polensek, Santana.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Conwell
(CHAIR), Cleveland (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Griffin, B. Jones, J. Jones,
Kazy.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:

FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

Mayor’s Appointments Committee:
Kazy (CHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Kelley.

File No. 369-18.
RE: #14374151025. New License
Application, D5. Chipotle Mexican
Grill of Colorado LLC, 11452 Euclid
Avenue (Ward 6). Received.

Operations Committee: McCormack
(CHAIR), Griffin, Keane, Kelley,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Polensek.

Kelley
Hairston,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
March 26, 2018
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:02 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.

Council Members present: Kevin L.
Bishop, Dona Brady, Anthony Brancatelli, Phyllis E. Cleveland, Kevin
Conwell, Blaine A. Griffin, Anthony
T. Hairston, Kenneth L. Johnson,
Basheer S. Jones, Joseph T. Jones,
Brian Kazy, Kevin J. Kelley, Martin
J. Keane, Kerry McCormack, Michael
D. Polensek, and Jasmin Santana.
Also present were: Mayor Frank G.
Jackson,
Interim
Chief
of
Staff/Director Sharon Dumas, Chief
Operating Officer Darnell Brown,
Chief of Government Affairs Valarie
J. McCall, Chief of Regional Development Edward W. Rybka, Chief of
Education Monyka S. Price, Chief of
Sustainability Matt Gray, and Directors Langhenry, Davis, Kennedy,
Spronz, Gordon, McGrath, Cox, Jackson, Donald, West, Ebersole, Stevenson, McNamara, Withers, Burrows
and Pierce Scott.

File No. 372-18.
RE: #23837740005. New License
Application, C1. E S Westside Deli,
Inc., 9901-03 Union Avenue (Ward 6).
Received.
File No. 373-18.
RE: #1972757. Transfer of Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3 D3A.
Dale Victor Barber, 13332-34 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 16). Received.
File No. 374-18.
RE: #9845603. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6.
YLT Red Cleveland LLC, 415-417
Prospect Avenue (Ward 3). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted by
a rising vote:
Res. No. 383-18 — George Abram.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 376-18 — Reverend Paul
Hobson Sadler, Sr.
Res. No. 377-18 — Margaret Withers-Turnbow – 100th Birthday.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Griffin, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Keane.
COMMUNICATIONS

10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Keane
(VICE-CHAIR),
Bishop,
Conwell,
Johnson, J. Jones, Santana.

File No. 371-18.
RE: #9555999. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6.
West 6th Entertainment Group LLC,
1290 West 6th Street (Ward 3).
Received.

MOTION
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection, and
the Pledge of Allegiance.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone (CHAIR), Polensek (VICECHAIR), Griffin, Kazy, B. Jones, J.
Jones, Santana.

File No. 370-18.
RE: #2383774. New License Application, C2. E S Westside Deli, Inc.,
9901-03 Union Avenue (Ward 6).
Received.

File No. 210-18-A.
From
Tracy
Anderson,
Special
Assistant to the Mayor, City of Cleveland. Amended Mayor’s nominations
to the Cleveland City Planning Commission, and adding nominations to
the City Audit Committee and Fair
Housing
Board.
Received
and
referred
to
Council’s
Mayor’s
Appointments Committee.

421

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 378-18 — April - Fair Housing Month 50th Anniversary.
Res. No. 379-18 — Richard Cole.
Res. No. 380-18 — North Coast
Men’s Chorus.
COMMENDATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 381-18 — Gregory Hampton.
Res. No. 382-18 — Donald Hughes.

The City Record

4

March 28, 2018

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 353-18.
By Council Members McCormack, Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. PI 2016-003 with Platform Cement, Inc. for improvements to the West Side Market parking area project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to make the following alterations and modifications in Contract No. PI 2016-003 with Platform Cement, Inc. for improvements to the West Side Market parking
area project:
Additions – Original Items
Item

Description

Amount

A01
General Conditions – Pay in Full: 15% Due
A44
Breakaway Bollards – (1) unit at $2,000 each
A45
Directional Signage – 15% due of $25,000 lump sum
A49
Compactor Relocation – 33% of $3,000 lump sum
Total Additions – Original Items

$ 11,250.00
2,000.00
3,750.00
1,000.00
$ 18,000.00

Additions – New Items
Item

Description

Amount

New
New

ADA Curb Ramp at St. Emeric’s Entry
Screen fence gates (5 total)
Total Additions – New Items

$

2,322.40
12,210.00
$ 14,532.40

Total Additions – Original Items
Total Additions – New Items
TOTAL SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS

$ 18,000.00
14,532.40
$ 32,532.40

Original Contract Amount
Total Subsidiary Additions
New Contract Amount

$3,010,023.13
+ 32,532.40
$3,042,555.53

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director of Capital Projects, countersigned by the
Mayor, and consented to by the surety on the contract. The price to be paid for the alterations and modifications
to the contract has been agreed upon in writing and signed by the Director of Capital Projects and the contractor. This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the original contract in the sum of $32,532.40 to
be paid from Fund No. 20 SF 566. (RQS 0103, RL 2018-19)
Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital Projects, Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.

Ord. No. 354-18.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
1242-17, passed October 16, 2017,
relating to applying for and accepting a Clean Ohio Fund – Green
space Conservation Program grant
from the Ohio Public works Commission for construction of the Morgana Bluff Nature Preserve and
Learning Center; and authorizing
one or more contracts with the Boys
& Girls Clubs of Cleveland, or its
designee, to implement the grant
project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 1242-17, passed October 16, 2017, are amended to read as
follows:

Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
Clean Ohio Fund – Green Space Conservation Program grant in an
amount up to $297,790.00 and any
other funds that become available,
from the Ohio Public Works Commission for construction of the Morgana Bluff Nature Preserve and
Learning Center, to be used to
implement the project as described
in the executive summary below;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the executive
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below and in any
subsequent
grant
amendments,
which amendments will be filed
with Council.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant File Nos. 1242-17-A and B,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects and shall not be changed

422

without
additional
legislative
authority.
Section 2. That existing Sections 1
and 2 of Ordinance No. 1242-17,
passed
October
16,
2017,
are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 355-18.
By Council Members McCormack,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire and
re-convey properties presently owned

March 28, 2018
by Playhouse Square Foundation, or
its designee, located at East 17th
Street and Euclid Avenue for the
purpose of entering into the chain-oftitle prior to the adoption of tax
increment
financing
legislation
authorized under Section 5709.41 of the
Revised Code.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire from and re-convey to, Playhouse Square Foundation, or its
designee, for a price of one dollar
and other valuable consideration
determined to be fair market value,
the following property for the purpose of entering into the chain-oftitle prior to the adoption of tax
increment
financing
legislation
authorized under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code and more fully
described as follows:
New PPN: 103-01-055 (Being created from PPN’s 103-01-023 through
028)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Parcel A
in the Plat of Consolidation for
Playhouse Square Foundation of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 51
as shown by the recorded plat in
Plat AFN 201710100484 of Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
containing
1.0219 acres as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire and to convey the
properties and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, and all other costs necessary
for the acquisition and sale of the
properties.
Section 3. That this Council finds
that the conveyances constitute a
public purpose.
Section 4. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 356-18.
By Council Members McCormack,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a loan agreement with Playhouse Square Foundation, or its designee, to provide
economic development assistance to

The City Record
partially finance the development of
a residential tower and parking
garage located at East 17th Street
and Euclid Avenue, and other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a loan agreement
with Playhouse Square Foundation,
or its designee, for a loan amount
up to $1,000,000, with up to $200,000
of that amount eligible for forgiveness, to partially finance the development of a residential tower and
parking garage located at East 17th
Street and Euclid Avenue, and other
associated costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Section 2. That the summary for
the loan, File No. 356-18-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept such collateral as the
director determines is sufficient in
order to secure repayment of the
loan.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund Nos. 10 SF 502.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 6. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 7. The contract authorized
in this legislation will require the
recipient of financial assistance to
work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit
qualified candidates for job opportunities related to the City’s contracts, and place special emphasis
on the hard to employ, including but
not limited to the disabled and persons who have been convicted of or
have pled guilty to a criminal
offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate
to the duties for the particular job
sought.
Section 8. That the costs of any
funding
under
this
ordinance,
including both forgivable and nonforgivable portions, shall not exceed
$1,000,000, and shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 10 SF 501, Request No.
RQS 9501, RL 2018-24.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

423

5
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 357-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 605-15, passed December 4, 2017,
relating to employing one or more
professional consultants to create
and administer a permitting and
billing program for unnecessary
police and fire alarms.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 605-15,
passed December 4, 2017, are amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
employ one or more professional
consultants to create and administer
a permitting, registration, billing,
and collection program for unnecessary police and fire alarms, for a
period of two years, with two oneyear options to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Finance.
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to create and administer a permitting, registration, billing, and collection program for unnecessary
police and fire alarms, including but
not limited to, accounts receivable
management,
appeals
processing,
customer service, community outreach support, document management, IT support and development
and maintenance of a web portal,
for a period of two years, with two
one-year options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Finance
from a list of qualified consultants
available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Finance
for the purpose of compiling a list.
The compensation to be paid for the
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 60515, passed December 4, 2017, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

6
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 358-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more agreements with Cleveland Housing Network to administer energy, water,
and sewer conservation services to
low income home owners or rental
property owners, for the Divisions of
Water, Water Pollution Control, and
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
one year, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more agreements
with Cleveland Housing Network to
administer energy, water, and sewer
conservation services to low income
home owners or rental property
owners, for the Divisions of Water,
Water Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of the
agreement or agreements authorized
shall not exceed $922,500 and shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001,
54 SF 001, and 58 SF 001, Request
No. RQS 2002, RL 2018-21.
Section 3. That the agreement or
agreements shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 359-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more requirement contracts without competitive
bidding with BissNuss Inc., the
Northeast Ohio Regional representative of various proprietary equipment and services, in order to maintain and replace existing components of the chemical feed systems,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
BissNuss Inc., who is the Northeast
Ohio Regional representative of the
following various proprietary equipment and services: Evoqua Water
Technologies, LLC, Force Flow Inc.,
ASCO, Inc., Gastronics, Inc., Acrison,
Jim Myers & Sons, BNR, Enviropax,
Inc., Henry Pratt, Inc., Ross Valves,
Inc., ITT Fabrivalve, Inc., Milton
Roy Americas, and Cla-Valve, Inc. in
order to maintain and replace existing components of the chemical feed
systems. Therefore, the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts with BissNuss Inc.,
for the requirements for a period not
to exceed two years, for the necessary equipment and services manufactured by the above-listed manufacturers, but provided by BissNuss
Inc., to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a delivery order
against the contract or contracts
certified by the Director of Finance.
(RQN 2002, RL 2018-7)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Utilities may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 360-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City of Cleveland to participate in the Northeast Ohio Public
Energy Council for electric aggregation services and power supply
program to serve residential and
small commercial customers from
the June 2018 through the May 2020
meter read cycle; and approving
NOPEC’s Plan of Operation and Governance for the City of Cleveland’s
electric aggregation and power supply program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
(the “City”) seeks to participate in
the Northeast Ohio Public Energy
Council’s (“NOPEC”) electric aggregation and power supply program

424

March 28, 2018
established for the benefit of its
member communities; and
Whereas, Section 4928.20 of the
Revised Code permits a municipality to create an electric aggregation
and power supply program and
thereby
combine
the
electricity
loads of its residents and small commercial customers for the purpose of
seeking sources of electricity for
such customers; and
Whereas, on November 7, 2000, the
electors of the City voted to authorize such a program in the City; and
Whereas, under Section 4928.20 of
the Revised Code, the City is authorized to establish an opt-out electric
aggregation and power supply program for the benefit of eligible electric customers located within the
City; and
Whereas, through Ordinance No.
799-03, passed June 2, 2003, the City
entered into a membership agreement with NOPEC; and
Whereas, under division (C) of
Section 4928.20 of the Revised Code,
the legislative authority or board of
a municipality developing an automatic
aggregation
program
is
required to adopt a Plan of Operation and Governance (“POG”) for its
municipal aggregation program; and
Whereas, governmental aggregation provides an opportunity for the
City to combine the electric loads of
its residents and small commercial
customers and offer electrical customers the ability to participate in
any benefits of electric deregulation; and
Whereas, this Council previously
enacted legislation authorizing the
City to join NOPEC’s natural gas
aggregation program to enable the
City to act jointly with other member political subdivisions and maximize any benefits of energy deregulation through group purchasing
efforts; and
Whereas, on behalf of this Council under Section 4928.20 of the
Revised Code, two public hearings
have been held on the POG for the
NOPEC electric aggregation and
power supply program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council finds
and determines that it is in the best
interest of the City of Cleveland,
and certain electric customers within the City, to participate in the optout electric aggregation services
and power supply program offered
by NOPEC, on the basis of the
NOPEC proposal dated July 20th,
2017, and re-freshed pricing proposal dated January 4th, 2018, which
are placed in File No. 360-18-A.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance, or the City’s designee,
shall serve as the City of Cleveland’s representative to the General
Assembly of NOPEC to represent the
City and the City’s interest. The representative shall serve in his or her
official capacity.
Section 3. That the Director of is
authorized to make any applications
or filings with the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio and execute any
documents as may be necessary to
implement the governmental aggregation program authorized by this
ordinance.

The City Record

March 28, 2018
Section 4. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide
notice to NOPEC of the City’s intention to withdraw from NOPEC’s electric aggregation services and power
supply program no later than six
months before the end of the program term if the Director determines withdrawal is in the City’s
best interest.
Section 5. That this Council adopts
the POG in substantially the form
contained in the above-mentioned
Council File for the implementation
and administration of Cleveland’s
municipal electric aggregation program under Section 4928.20 of the
Revised Code.
Section 6. That this Council finds
and determines that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the adoption of this
ordinance were taken in an open
meeting of this Council and that all
deliberations of this Council and of
any committees that resulted in
those formal actions were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 361-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and

materials necessary to test, inspect,
maintain, repair, enhance or replace
HVAC
systems
and
components,
including boilers, ventilation and
AC systems, environmental controls,
software, and components, including
rentals and installation, if necessary, for the Divisions of Water,
Water Pollution Control, Cleveland
Public Power, and Office of Radio
Communications,
Department
of
Public Utilities, for a period up to
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for a period up to two
years, of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
test,
inspect,
maintain,
repair,
enhance or replace building protection systems, including, but not limited to heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning systems or components,
security systems or components, and
fire protection system or components, including rentals and installation if necessary, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution
Control, Cleveland Public Power,
and Office of Radio Communications, Department of Public Utilities.
Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any

7
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of any purchase or procurement
under the contract, each of which
purchases or procurements shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the
contract or contracts and certified
by the Director of Finance. (RQN
2002, RL 2018-8)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
or procurements authorized by this
ordinance may be made through
cooperative
arrangements
with
other governmental agencies. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases or procurements, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Utilities, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 367-18.
By Council Member McCormack.
An ordinance changing the Uses and Area Districts of parcels of land northwest of Chatham Avenue between
West 32nd Street and West 31st Street and adding zero foot and seven foot mapped setbacks as shown on the
attached map (Map Change No. 2579).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, and known as being part of the Caroline S. Dixon and Louisa Schenck’s Re-Allotment of part of the Original Brooklyn Township as shown by Recorded Plat in Volume 4 of Maps, page 53 of Cuyahoga County Records and also known as being part of Barber and
Lord’s Subdivision of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 51, 52, 69 and 70 as shown in Volume 11 of Maps,
page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records; fully bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the Centerline of West 32nd Street (formerly Penn Street) and the centerline
of Keene Court S.W.;
Thence, South 64°18'48" West along the centerline of Keene Court S.W., approximately 128.78 feet to a point;
Thence, South 31°09'14" East, 378.37 feet to its intersection with the centerline of Chatham Avenue;
Thence, North 58°39'01" East, 129.78 feet to its intersection with the centerline of West 32nd Street, formerly
Penn Street.
Thence, North 31°09'14" West, 390.4 feet to a point and the principal place of beginning, to be the same more
less, but subject to all legal highways and containing 31,831 square feet of land;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to a ‘Two-Family Residential’ Use District, a ‘D’ Area
District and a ‘1’ Height District
Section 2. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, and known as being part of the Caroline S. Dixon and Louisa Schenck’s Re-Allotment of part of the Original Brooklyn Township as shown by Recorded Plat in Volume 4 of Maps, page 53 of Cuyahoga County Records and also known as being part of Barber and
Lord’s Subdivision of the Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 51, 52, 69 and 70 as shown in Volume 11 of Maps,
page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records; fully bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Keene Court S.W., and the centerline of West 31st Street;

425

8

The City Record

March 28, 2018

Thence, North 31°07'19" West, 364.91 feet along the centerline of West 31st Street to its' intersection with the
centerline of Chatham Avenue S.W.
Thence, North 58°32'01" East, 126.19 feet along the centerline of Chatham Avenue S.W.;
Thence, South 31°09'14" East, 378.37 feet to its’ intersection with the centerline of Keene Court S.W,
Thence, South 64°18'48" West, 125.77 feet to a point and the principal place of beginning, to be the same more
or less, but subject to all legal highways and containing 39,775 square feet of land;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to an ‘Institutional Research Use District, a ‘D’ Area
District and a ‘1’ Height District.
Section 3. That a mapped Building Setback of zero (0) feet be established on the southerly side of Keene Court
S.W. between West 32nd Street and West 31st Street, on the westerly side of West 31st Street between Keene
Court S.W. and Chatham Avenue, and the northeasterly side of Chatham between West 32nd Street and West 31st
Street as shown on the attached map.
Section 4. That a mapped Building setback of seven (7) feet be established on the northeasterly side of West
32nd Street between Keene Court and Chatham Avenue as shown on the attached map.
Section 5. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2579, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk
of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for
this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 6. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 368-18.
By Council Member McCormack.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area, and Height Districts of lands flanking Old River Road and City owned
property intended for Canal Basin Park consistent with recent zoning changes located on the East and West
Banks of the Flats as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2580).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, and State of Ohio and known as being part of the Original Two Acre Lots Nos. 205, 204, 203, 202, and 201 as recorded in Volume 51, Page 74 in Cuyahoga County Map
Records and described as follows:

426

March 28, 2018

The City Record

9

Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of West Tenth (10th) Street, formerly Spring Street and the centerline of West Superior Avenue, formerly Superior Street;
Thence, southwesterly along the centerline of West Superior Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of
Robert Lockwood Jr. Drive;
Thence, northerly and westerly along the centerline of Robert Lockwood Jr. Drive to its three way intersection
with the centerline of West Tenth (10th) Street, the centerline of West Saint Clair Avenue and the centerline of
Old River Road;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of West Saint Clair Avenue to its intersection with the northeasterly centerline of West Tenth (10th) Street, formerly Spring Street;
Thence, southeasterly along the centerline of West Tenth (10th) Street to its intersection with the centerline
of West Superior Avenue and to its’ point of origin;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to a ‘Limited Retail District, a ‘K’ Area District and a
‘6’ Height District;
Section 2. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, and State of Ohio and known as being parts of the
Original Two Acre Lots Nos. 201, 202, 203, & 204 as well as being part of Unnumbered Lots recorded in “The Plan
of the City of Cleaveland” by Seth Pease, dated 1796, often referred to as ‘Merwin’s Tract’ and being parcels of
land bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the four way intersection of the centerline of West Tenth (10th) Street, formerly Spring Street,
the centerline of West Saint Clair Avenue, the centerline of Robert Lockwood Jr Drive and the centerline of Old
River Road (formerly West 11th Street);
Thence, southerly and southeasterly along the centerline of Robert Lockwood Jr. Drive to its intersection with
the centerline of the High Level Detroit-Superior Street Bridge;
Thence, southwesterly along the centerline of the High Level Detroit-Superior Street Bridge to its intersection
with the centerline of James Street, N.W.;
Thence, westerly along the centerline of James Street, N.W. to its intersection with the centerline of Merwin
Avenue (formerly West 11th Street, N.W.);
Thence, southwesterly along the centerline of Merwin Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Superior Avenue along the High Level Detroit Superior Bridge and the centerline of West Avenue;
Thence, easterly and southerly along the centerline of West Avenue, north of lands known as being parts of
Sub-lot Nos. 12, 13, and 14 in I.L. Hewitt’s Subdivision of part of the Merwin Estate as recorded by Plat Volume
1, Page 10 of Cuyahoga County Map Records to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the easterly line of a parcel of land known as being part of the Allotment for F.W. Bingham recorded in Volume 45,
Page 43 of the Cuyahoga County Deed Records and also known as Permanent Parcel Number 101-15-005;
Thence, southwesterly along the easterly line of said parcel and continuing to its intersection with the centerline of Center Street, N.W.;
Thence, westerly along the centerline of Center Street, N.W., formerly Division Street, to its intersection with
the southerly prolongation of the vacated original West Alley as show in the 1929 Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of said vacated alley to its intersection with the northeasterly corner of Permanent Parcel Number 101-15-004 also known as being part of Sub-lot No. 8, in the I.L. Hewitt Subdivision of part of the Original Two Acre Lot No. 206 and Merwin Tract, as shown by the recorded Plat in Volume
1 of Maps, Page 10 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northwesterly along the northerly line of Sub-lot No. 8 and its westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Merwin Avenue;
Thence, southwesterly along the centerline of Merwin Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Center
(Division) Street, N.W;
Thence, westerly and northerly along the centerline of Center Street to its intersection with the Center Street
Draw Bridge and the centerline of the Cuyahoga River;
Thence northeasterly and then northwesterly along the centerline of the Cuyahoga River to its intersection with
the southwesterly prolongation of West Saint Clair Avenue;
Thence, northeasterly along said prolongation to the original four way intersection and the place of beginning;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to an ‘Open Space Recreation, a ‘B’ Area District and a
‘3’ Height District;
Section 3. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, and State of Ohio and known as being parts of the
Original Two Acre Lots Nos. 191, 192, 193, 194, 195, 196, 197, 198, 199, & 200 in Merwin Tract, as a recorded Plat
in Volume 1 of Maps, Page 10 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Main Avenue, N.W. (formerly Lighthouse Street) and the centerline of West 10th Street;
Thence, southeasterly along the centerline of West 10th Street to its four way intersection with the centerline
of West Saint Clair Avenue, Robert Lockwood Jr. Drive, and the centerline of Old River Road;
Thence south westerly along the north easterly prolongation of West Saint Clair Avenue and Old River Road
to its intersection with the centerline of the Cuyahoga River;
Thence, northerly and westerly along the centerline of the Cuyahoga River to its intersection with the centerline of the Cleveland Memorial Shoreway West (also known as the Main Avenue Bridge);
Thence, northeasterly along the centerline of the Cleveland Memorial Shoreway West or Main Avenue, N.W. to
its intersection with the centerline of West 10th Street, and its place of beginning;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to a ‘Limited Retail Business District, a ‘K’ Area District, and a ‘4’ Height District;
Section 4. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 through 3 shall be identified as Map Change
No. 2580, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the
Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

427

The City Record

10

March 28, 2018

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 375-18.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution urging
Mayor Jackson’s Administration to
require special police forces to
undergo racial bias and sensitivity
training
and
forward
incident
reports to the Department of Public
Safety.
Whereas, the inexcusable campus
police stop of Cleveland City Councilman Kevin Conwell earlier this
month while he walked on the Case
Western Reserve University campus
in the ward he represents draws
attention to the prevalence of racial
bias and profiling and the need for
proper training on fair, unbiased
policing in all police departments;
and
Whereas, neighborhood citizens,
students and parents have reported
being stopped due to racial profiling
by special police officers on campus
while walking, driving, and entering dorms;
Whereas, the university has now
committed
to
retraining
campus
police on community policing and

interactions with neighborhood citizens; and
Whereas, all special police forces,
including Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland State University, Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority, Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Authority, Cuyahoga County College, University Circle, University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland Clinic, Metro Health
System, and North East Ohio Sewer
District police forces, exercise their
police authority to enforce the City
of Cleveland laws under the written
authority of the Mayor or Director
of Public Safety and under the direction and control of the Chief of
Police; and
Whereas, this Council urges the
Administration, through their Memorandum of Understanding agreements with special police forces, to
require racial profiling and sensitivity training for all police officers
and police dispatchers essential to
communication with police officers;
and
Whereas, this Council also urges
the Administration to require special police forces to forward all incident reports to the Department of

428

Public Safety for tracking and evaluation; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
recently approved a written policy
on unbiased policing under its U.S.
Department
of
Justice
consent
decree
police
reforms
that
the
Department of Public Safety will
train officers on in early summer;
and
Whereas, this Council recognizes
the need for racial bias and sensitivity training of all special police
forces to ensure that all law-abiding
citizens, no matter their race, creed
or color, are free from unwarranted
stops based on racial profiling; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That this Council urges
Mayor Jackson’s Administration to
require special police forces to
undergo racial bias and sensitivity
training
and
forward
incident
reports to the Department of Public
Safety.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit copies of

March 28, 2018
this resolution to Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Director of Public Safety
Michael McGrath, Assistant Director
of Public Safety Tim Hennessy, and
Chief of Police Calvin Williams.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Committees on Safety
and Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 362-18.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into agreement with Case Western Reserve
University for the Data Days Cleveland Expo through the use of Ward
13 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development enter into agreement effective
March 14, 2018 with Case Western
Reserve University for the Data
Days Cleveland Expo for the public
purpose of educating and assisting
Cleveland residents on the use of
data and information technology
through the use of Ward 13 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 363-18.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Economic Development to enter
into an agreement with The Halfmoon Bakery for the Halfmoon Bakery Project through the use of Ward
3 Casino Revenue Funds.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement effective October 1, 2017
with The Halfmoon Bakery for the
Halfmoon Bakery Project for the
public purpose of promoting business development and new job creation through the use of Ward 3
Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 364-18.
By
Council
Members
Bishop,
McCormack, Johnson, B. Jones, Conwell and Keane.
An emergency ordinance amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2
of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed
November 13, 2017 as amended by
Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to
enter into agreement with the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the
use of Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 137117, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18,
passed February 26, 2018 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into agreement with the Cleveland
Restoration Society for the Heritage
Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13,
15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective July 1, 2017
with the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program

429

11
for the public purpose of providing
housing rehabilitation services to
residents residing in the city of
Cleveland through the use of Wards
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and
17 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $153,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 2. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 137117, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18,
passed February 26, 2018 are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 365-18.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Aging to enter into an agreement
with Court Community Service for
the Senior Lawn Care & Snow
Removal Program through the use
of Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Aging be authorized
to enter into an agreement with
Court Community Service for the
Senior Lawn Care & Snow Removal
Program for the public purpose of
assisting senior citizens residing in
the city of Cleveland with grass cutting, lawn maintenance care and
snow removal through the use of
Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The City Record

12
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 366-18.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 4488 State
Road, 1st floor and basement, and
repealing
Resolution
No.
856-17
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit
to
Ohio
Restaurant
Investment
Corp., 4488 State Road, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
Permit Number 6520440-0055 by Resolution No. 856-17, adopted by the
Council on July 12, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit to
Ohio Restaurant Investment Corp.,
4488 State Road, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permit
Number 6520440-0055, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 856-17, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 151-18.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment
to Contract No. CT 9501 PS 2017-063
with Project Management Consultants, LLC, or its designee, to provide additional financial consulting
services
for
the
Neighborhood
Transformation Initiative, and to
extend the term of the contract
through May 31, 2018.

Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committtees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 184-18.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security for the FY17 Port Security
Grant Program; authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement
contracts of labor and materials
needed to provide security enhancements and upgrades to various lift
bridges, including labor and installation, if necessary.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 185-18.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
accept the donation of pre-packaged
frozen desserts, use of a freezer, and
related items, from the Cleveland
Police Foundation for the “Let’s
Chill Together” program for local
youths and young adults, Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety; and to accept additional
donations of pre-packaged frozen
desserts, related items, and/or ancillary equipment from other entities
for City events.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 205-18.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide security services at various indoor and outdoor
recreation facilities, including but
not limited to, recreation centers,
outdoor pools, and various surrounding play areas, for a period
not to exceed one year.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services
and
Properties,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

March 28, 2018
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 298-18.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety for the FY 2018 Impaired Driving
Enforcement
Program
(IDEP)
Grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 299-18.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety for the FY 2018 Selective Traffic
Enforcement
Program
(STEP)
Grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 319-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the second option to renew Contract No. RC 2016-91 with Advance
Door Company to provide labor and
materials necessary to maintain,
replace, or repair overhead doors,
for the various divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 320-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 16, 19, 20, 21,
46 and 48 of Ordinance No. 323-15,
passed March 30, 2015, as amended
by various ordinances, relating to
compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 321-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 4, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 38, 39, and 43 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed
March 30, 2015, as amended by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human Resources, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 2, after “Sections” insert “2,”; in the same line, after “35,” insert “37,”; and in line 3, strike
“and 43” and insert “43, and 45”.

430

March 28, 2018

The City Record

13

2. In Sections 1 and 2, line 2, strike “Section” and insert “Sections 2 and”.
3. In Sections 1 and 2, after the section history of Section 35, insert the following new section history for Section 37 to read as follows:
“Section 37 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015,”.
4. In Sections 1 and 2, at the section history of Section 39, at the end, strike “and”.
5. In Sections 1 and 2, at the section history of Section 43, at the end, insert “and”.
6. In Sections 1 and 2, after the section history of Section 43, insert the following new section history for Section 45 to read as follows:
“Section 45 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015,”.
7. In Section 1, after the section histories and the phrase “are amended to read as follows:” insert new amended Section 2 to read as follows:
“Section 2. Secretary to the Mayor, Directors of Departments, Planning Director, Executive Director Community
Relations Board, Executive Assistants to the Mayor.
(a) That the salary of the Secretary to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor at not less than $50,795.78 and
not more than $192,654.41 per annum.
(b) That the salary of the Directors of Law, Finance, Economic Development, Public Safety, Public Works, Public Health, Human Resources, Community Development, Building and Housing, Aging, the Planning Director, the
Executive Director of the Community Relations Board, and Executive Assistants to the Mayor shall be fixed by
the Mayor at not less than $50,795.81 and not more than $191,316.74 per annum.
(c) That the salary of the Directors of Port Control and Public Utilities shall be fixed by the Mayor at not
less than $100,000.00 and not more than $248,531.48 $286,109.92 per annum.”
8. In Section 1, at amended Section 4, at line 8, “Deputy Clerk”, strike “79,533.35” and insert “83,231.92”; at line
10, “Director of Policy Research” strike “86,174.10” and insert “86,207.24”; and at line 16, “Financial Officer” strike
“83,349.82” and insert “83,381.88”.
9. In Section 1, at amended Section 30, at line 7, “Civil Service Examiner II”, strike “67,600.00” and insert “67,626.00”,
and at line 20, “Private Secretary to Director” strike “54,604.58” and insert “54,625.58”.
10. In Section 1, at amended Section 31, at line 10, “Economic Development Specialist”, strike “53,084.93” and
insert “53,105.35”; and at line 15, “Safety Programs Officer II”, strike “53,235.05” and insert “53,255.53”.
11. In Section 1, at amended Section 32, at line 13, “Chief of Traffic Signal Unit”, strike “42.27” and insert “42.29”;
and at line 21, “Parking Meter Foreman”, strike “46,811.65” and insert “46,829.65”.
12. In Section 1, at amended Section 33, at line 4, “Assistant Water Plant Manager”, strike “36.19” and insert
“36.21”; at line 5, “Assistant Water Plant Manager – Parma”, “strike “36.19” and insert “36.21”; and at line 11,
“Machinist Unit Leader”, strike “28.73” and insert “28.74”.
13. In Section 1, at amended Section 34, at line 11, “Deputy Commissioner of Recreation – Fiscal Control”, strike
“82,287.48” and insert “82,319.13”.
14. In Section 1, at amended Section 35, at line 7, “Assistant Administrator”, strike “73,840.19” and insert “73,868.59”.
15. In Section 1, after amended Section 35, insert new amended Section 37 to read as follows:
“Section 37. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33

Accountant Supervisor ..............................................................
Assistant Chief of Water Distribution ...............................
Assistant Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses
Assistant Commissioner, Division of Printing ”
and Reproduction ....................................................................
Building Manager .......................................................................
Business Process Analyst ........................................................
Chief Architect.............................................................................
Chief Auditor – Utilities ..........................................................
Chief City Planner .....................................................................
Chief, Computer Operations ....................................................
Chief Electric Transmissions Operator ..............................
Chief Engineer – Civil .............................................................
Chief Engineer – Mechanical.................................................
Chief Legal Investigator - Civil Branch ...........................
Chief of Street Lighting and Electrical Services ..........
Chief of Laboratories ................................................................
Chief of Purification .................................................................
Convention Manager ..................................................................
Development Finance Analyst I ...........................................
Development Finance Analyst II .........................................
Financial Systems Coordinator..............................................
Fiscal Grants Administrator...................................................
Fiscal Manager ............................................................................
...........................................................................................................
Health Promotion Coordinator ...............................................
Investment Manager ..................................................................
Manager of Enterprise Unit ...................................................
Manager of Events.....................................................................
Manager of General Maintenance ........................................
Manager of Markets ..................................................................
Manager of Parking ..................................................................
Manager of Recreation .............................................................
Master Plan Examiner..............................................................
Purchasing Supervisor - Division of Purchases
and Supplies..............................................................................

431

Minimum
$23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11

Maximum”
$80,096.82”
95,698.26”
93,401.98”

23,647.11
23,647.11
55,000.00
23,647.11
23,647.11
30,000.00
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
34,000.00
51,043.20
23,647.11
40,000.00
23,647.11
22,333.40
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
40,000.00
23,647.11

93,401.98”
86,215.32”
108,044.90”
112,409.91”
93,401.98”
91,405.96”
93,401.98”
101,822.91”
93,401.98”
93,401.98”
74,000.47”
107,738.40”
88,725.73”
95,698.26”
86,215.32”
66,489.84”
93,856.07”
74,000.47”
95,063.30”
93,401.98”
97,175.21”
85,312.08”
93,401.98”
86,215.32”
86,215.32”
86,215.32”
86,215.32”
86,215.32”
86,215.32”
112,409.91”

23,647.11

74,000.47”

The City Record

14
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41

Secretary to the Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals ...........................................................
Secretary to the Board of Zoning Appeals ......................
Security Manager ........................................................................
Senior Internal Auditor ............................................................
Senior Programmer Analyst ...................................................
Supervisor - Information Control ..........................................
Theatrical Manager....................................................................
Water Plant Manager ...............................................................

March 28, 2018

23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11
23,647.11

91,405.96”
91,405.96”
100,133.34”
74,000.47”
76,592.09”
74,000.47”
74,000.47”
107,738.40”

16. In Section 1, at amended Section 38, at line 49, “Utilities Comptroller”, strike “98,799.83” and insert “98,837.83”.
17. In Section 1, at amended Section 39, at line 1, “Administrative Manager”, strike “117,627.24” and insert
“117,672.49”.
18. In Section 1, at amended Section 43, at line 13, “IT Project Manager I”, strike “70,719.98” and insert “70,747.18”;
at line 21, “Network Analyst II”, strike “97,709.06” and insert “101,647.18”; and at line 23, “Program Manager”, strike
“91,394.12” and insert “91,429.27”.
19. In Section 1, after amended Section 43, insert new amended Section 45 to read as follows:
“Section 45. Part-Time/Seasonal Group
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9

Head Usher....................................................................................
Law Clerk ......................................................................................
...........................................................................................................
Organ Tuner .................................................................................
Park Maintenance Aide ............................................................
School Crossing Guard (Per Day) .......................................
Student Aide .................................................................................
Student Assistant ........................................................................
Usher................................................................................................
Usher Captain...............................................................................

Minimum
$10.00
10.00

Maximum”
$13.56”
14.91”
15.06”
29.98”
11.94”
31.09”
11.94”
11.94”
11.94”
11.94”

10.00
10.00
20.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16. Nays
0.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 322-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Fingerprint/Scientific
Examiners,
FOP/OLCI; and to amend Section 28
of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed
March 30, 2015, as amended, relating
to compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 323-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers, District Council 54, Local
439; and to amend Section 17 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30,
2015, relating to compensation for
various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 324-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Human
Resources to exercise the second
option to renew Contract No. CT
0402 PS 2016-264 with The Centers
for Families and Children to administer the City’s employee assistance
program.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 78-18.
By Council Members McCormack,
Cleveland and B. Jones.
An ordinance changing the Height
Districts for the Central Business
District and lands along the East
Bank of the Flats as identified on
the attached map (Map Change No.
2573).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

432

THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 147-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
appropriations and provide current
expenses for the daily operation of
all municipal departments of the
City of Cleveland for the fiscal year
from January 1, 2018 until December
31, 2018.
Read third time in full. Passed.
Yeas 16. Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Griffin, the absence of Council Member Matt Zone is hereby authorized.
Seconded by Council Member Keane.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:29 p.m. to meet on Monday, April
2, 2018, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The City Record

March 28, 2018
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

Huskey Envelope
(non-certified)

$864,000.00
0.00%
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.

March 21, 2018
The meeting of the Board of Control convened in the Mayor’s office
on Wednesday, March 21, 2018 at
10:36 a.m. with Director Langhenry
presiding.
Present: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director
Wood,
Directors
Kennedy, Cox, Interim Director L.
Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director Ebersole, Director McNamara, and Interim Director Donald.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Others: Tiffany White Johnson,
Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
William Sonntag, Acting Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Melissa Burrows, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
Resolution No. 103-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
414-17, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on May 8, 2017,
SourceLink Ohio, LLC is selected
from a list of firms determined after
a full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities as the
firm to be employed by contract to
provide professional services necessary for bill printing and mailing
services for a period of three years,
with two options to renew for additional one-year periods, for the Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
SourceLink Ohio, LLC based upon
its proposal dated September 22,
2017, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide for furnishing of professional services described in the proposal for a fee of $2,000,000.00 for
each year of the initial term, totaling not to exceed $6,000,000.00 for
the three-year term, and shall contain such additional provisions as
the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by SourceLink Ohio,
LLC for the above-mentioned professional services is approved:
SUBCONSULTANT

WORK
PERCENTAGE

United Envelope
(non-certified)

Domtar (non-certified)

$864,000.00
0.00%
$288,000.00
0.00%

Resolution No. 104-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
414-17, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on May 8, 2017,
KUBRA
Data
Transfer
Ltd.
is
selected from a list of firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Public Utilities as the firm to be employed by
contract to provide professional services necessary for electronic bill
presentment and payment services,
for a period of three years, with two
options to renew for additional oneyear periods, for the Divisions of
Water and Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
Kubra Data Transfer Ltd. based
upon its proposal dated September
22, 2017, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide for furnishing of professional services described in the proposal, for a fee of $400,000.00 for
each year of the initial term, totaling not to exceed $1,200,000.00 for
the three-year term, and shall contain such additional provisions as
the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Resolution No. 105-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Sona Construction, LLC
for the public improvement of WPC
Pavement and Drainage Improvement Project - Phase I (Base Bid All
Items including the 10% contingency allowance) for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, received on
January 5, 2018, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 1276-16, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on November 28, 2016, upon a unit
basis for the improvement, in the
aggregate amount of $1,219,655.22, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into contract for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Sona Construction, LLC for the

433

15
above-mentioned
public
ments is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

improve-

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK

D.E. Williams Electric
MBE
$85,000.00(7.00%)
Tech Ready Mix

MBE
$100,000.00(8.20%)

Roma Design Consultants
CSB
$100,000.00(8.20%)
Construction Management Team
FBE
$90,000.00(7.40%)
King Excavating

Non-certified
$134,000.00(11.00%)

Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Resolution No. 106-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Simplified Alternatives,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of
ductile iron pipe and fittings, items
2, 4, and 6, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one year starting upon the later of the execution
of a contract or the day following
expiration of the currently effective
contract for the goods or services,
received on December 8, 2017 under
the authority of Section 129.25 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$146,725.00 (0%, Net 30 Days), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary for
the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Resolution No. 107-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Trumbull Industries, Inc
for an estimated quantity of ductile
iron pipe and fittings, items 1, 5, 89, 14 and 21-138 for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one year starting upon the later of the execution
of a contract or the day following
expiration of the currently effective
contract for the goods or services,
received on December 8, 2017 under

16
the authority of Section 129.25 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$152,240.17 (0%, Net 25 Days), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary for
the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Resolution No. 108-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Core & Main LP for an
estimated quantity of ductile iron
pipe and fittings, items 15-19, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of one
year starting upon the later of the
execution of a contract or the day
following expiration of the currently effective contract for the goods
or services, received on December 8,
2017 under the authority of Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $145,491.00 (0%,
Net 30 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Resolution No. 109-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Winsupply of Cleveland
for an estimated quantity of ductile
iron pipe and fittings, items 7 and
10, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year starting upon the
later of the execution of a contract
or the day following expiration of
the currently effective contract for
the goods or services, received on
December 8, 2017 under the authority of Section 129.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated

The City Record
quantity would amount to $22,352.80
(0%, Net 30 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Resolution No. 110-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Ferguson Enterprises Inc.
dba Ferguson Waterworks for an
estimated quantity of ductile iron
pipe and fittings, items 11-13, and 20
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one year starting upon the
later of the execution of a contract
or the day following expiration of
the currently effective contract for
the goods or services, received on
December 8, 2017 under the authority of Section 129.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $130,263.00
(0%, Net 30 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Resolution No. 111-18.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on March 2, 2018
for Restoration of Pavement for the
Department of Public Utilities, for
the various divisions of the Department of Public Utilities, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 703-16,
passed July 13, 2016, are rejected.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.

434

March 28, 2018
Resolution No. 112-18.
By Director Kennedy.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 466-14, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
May 12, 2014, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 105-15, adopted April
1, the City through its Director of
Port Control, entered into Contract
No. PS2015*102 with AvAirPros Services, Inc. (“Consultant”) to provide
professional services necessary to
provide maintenance, operation and
management of the City-owned common-use facilities at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for the
Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, the City has determined
the need to increase the maintenance and operation services to be
provided by Consultant under the
above-mentioned contract in order to
provide services for additional Cityowned gates and aircraft parking
spaces returned to common use at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport; and
Whereas, the Consultant has proposed by its submission dated February 1, 2018 to provide the additional maintenance and operation
services necessary under Contract
No. PS2015*102 for the returned
gates and parking spaces for an
amount of $587,336.18; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a First Modification
to
City
Contract
No.
PS2015*102 between the City of
Cleveland and AvAirPros Services,
Inc. for maintenance and operation
services required for additional Cityowned
common-use
facilities
at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport. The fee to be paid for all
maintenance and operation services
shall increase by $587,336.18 from
$1,732,084.00 to a total of $2,319,420.18
which, together with the management fee of $45,000.00 per year, will
increase the total contract amount
to not to exceed $2,544,42018.
Be it further resolved that the following additional sub-consultants to
AvAirPros Services, Inc. under Contract No. PS2015*102 are approved:
Subconsultant

Percentage
Amount

Ameribridge

Non-CSB
$55,373.40

AIRINC

Non-CSB
$86,243.00

Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Resolution No. 113-18.
By Director Spronz.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 202-17, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
April 10, 2017, and Board of Control
Resolution
No.
399-17,
adopted
August 2, 2017, the City through its
Director of Capital Projects entered
into City Contract No. PIRC2017*02
with Utilicon Corp. (“Utilicon”) for
the public improvement by requirement contract of City Wards for

March 28, 2018
Year 2017 Concrete Requirements
for the improvements to be performed as ordered during the 24month period starting upon execution of a contract; and
Whereas, by its November 30, 2017
letter, Utilicon advised the City that
it was financially unable to perform
or complete the performance of the
work under the contract, was in
default under the contract, waived
its right to be declared in default,
further waived any applicable period to cure its default and irrevocably and voluntarily abandoned the
contract; and
Whereas,
Evergreen
National
Indemnity Company, consistent with
its obligations as surety on Utilicon’s performance bond under City
Contract No. PIRC2017*02 and with
the City’s requirement for completion of the contract, has proposed
that Terrace Construction Company,
Inc. (“Terrace”) assume and perform
all Utilicon’s obligations under the
contract for the term remaining
upon Utilicon’s assignment of the
contract to Terrace, subject to and
conditioned upon the City’s prior
consent
to
the
aforementioned
assignment and assumption; and
Whereas,
Utilicon
intends
to
assign the contract, including all its
rights, title, claims, and interest
under it, to Terrace and Terrace
intends to assume the contract,
including all Utilicon’s obligations
and liabilities under it, as of the
effective date of an assignment and
assumption
agreement
between
them, subject to the City’s prior consent; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
this Board consents to the assignment by Utilicon Corp. of City Contract No. PIRC2017*02, including but
not limited to all its rights, title,
claims and interest under the contract, to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. and the assumption by
Terrace of the contract, including
but not limited to all Utilicon’s
obligations and liabilities under it,
effective on the Effective Date of a
certain assignment and assumption
agreement to be executed between
Utilicon and Terrace, provided, however, that Utilicon and Terrace do
all things necessary and appropriate
to implement the assignment and
the assumption, respectively.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute all documents and
to do all things necessary and
appropriate to effect the consent to
the assignment and assumption of
City
Contract
No.
PIRC2017*02
authorized above.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. for the above-mentioned
public
improvement
is
approved:
Rockport Construction and
Materials, Inc.
(CSB/FBE) — $708,000.00 — 12.0%
The Vallejo Company
(CSB/FBE) — $1,062,000.00 — 18.0%
Royal Landscaping-Gardening, Inc.
(CSB/FBE) — $5,000.00 — 0.1%
TraffTech, Inc.
(CSB) — $5,000.00 — 0.1%

The City Record

17

VanCuren Tree Services, Inc.
(N/A) — $111,835.00 — 1.9%
Geo-Sci, Inc.
(N/A) — $5,000.00 — 0.1%
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Resolution No. 114-18.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Western Waterproofing
Company Inc. D/B/A Western Specialty Contractors for the public
improvement of the First Energy
Stadium 2018 General Improvements,
Base Bid Items A through C, and
Optional Items 1, 2, and 7 through
10, for the Office of Capital Projects,
received on February 15, 2018 under
the authority of Ordinance No. 80516 passed August 10, 2016, upon a
gross price basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
$4,213,796.00
is
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of the Office
of Capital Projects is authorized to
enter into contract with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Western
Waterproofing
Company
Inc. D/B/A Western Specialty Contractors is hereby approved:
Subcontractor
Amount

CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

Performance Painting
$90,000.00

FBE
2.13%

Relmec Mechanical
$31,805.00

FBE
0.75%

Forest City Erectors, Inc.
$309,000.00

FBE
7.33%

The Chas E. Phipps Co.
$135,275.00

CSB
3.13%

Precision ProCut
$201,300.00

CSB
4.77%

21st Century Concrete
$237,050.00

CSB
5.62%

Gradeworks
$20,000.00

N/A
0.00%

Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Resolution No. 115-18.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns and operates certain real property
commonly
known
as
the
Willard Park Garage under the
supervision and direction of the
Director of Public Works; and
Whereas, Towne Park, LLC has
proposed to place a valet stand at
Huntington Convention Center and
offer valet parking services to the

435

general public for the Rock-n-Roll
Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony to
be held at Public Hall on April 14,
2018, by using the Willard Park
Garage; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Section 183.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works
is authorized to enter into a concession
agreement
with
Towne
Park, LLC to place a valet stand at
Huntington Convention Center and
use Willard Park Garage to offer
valet parking services to the public
for a fee per event of $450.00 plus
$5.00 per vehicle parked for the
above-mentioned event to be held at
Public Hall on April 14, 2018 from
5:00pm until April 15, 2018 at 2:00am.
The concession agreement shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit public interest.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
Resolution No. 116-18.
By Interim Director Jackson.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 005-14-151 and 005-14-153 located
on West 106th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas,
RockNPop
Resources,
LLC has proposed to the City to purchase and develop the parcels for
yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 11 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of
Cleveland,
with
RockNPop
Resources, LLC for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
Nos. 005-14-151 and 005-14-153, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.

The City Record

18
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Director Wood, Directors Kennedy,
Cox, Interim Director L. Jackson,
Director
West,
Interim
Director
Ebersole, Director McNamara, and
Interim Director Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, Gordon, and McGrath.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

March 28, 2018

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.

Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.

EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination
as
soon
as
the
commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.

Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.

ROBERT BENNETT,
President

Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________-

Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2018
Filing Beginning 3/30/2018
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.
31

EE

Low Tension
Line Worker
(Traffic
Engineering)

Exam
Type

LOW TENSION LINE WORKER
(Traffic Engineering) (OPEN)

Open

32

WR

Patrol Officer* Open

33

WR

Real Estate
Maintenance
Worker

34

WR/TY Safety
Telephone
Operator

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 31

Open

Open

*Filing Beginning 4/1/2018

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio, of an open examination for
the above classification.
FILING OF APPLICATION:
Application must be made electronically through the City of Cleveland’s
web site:
www.governmentjobs.com/careers/c
leveland
No other form or method of application will be accepted. Absolutely no
paper applications will be accepted.

436

THE ELECTRONIC APPLICATION
PERIOD IS FROM 12:01 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018 UNTIL 11:59
PM. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2018.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 11:59 PM ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2018.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
IMPORTANT NOTE: At the time of
submitting an application, copies of
the following items are required to be
uploaded as attachments to that
application:
1. Proof of Education (as provided
herein);
2. DD-214 or other materials to prove
veteran’s status (as described herein)
only required if the applicant is seeking veteran’s preference points;
3. A valid Class B Commercial Driver’s License (as provided herein);
and
4. Any additional licenses, certificates, diplomas, etc.
NOTE: ONCE YOU SUBMIT YOUR
APPLICATION, FURTHER CHANGES
TO THAT APPLICATION WILL NOT
BE
PERMITTED.
All
additional
attachments, correspondence, notifications, and certifications will be made
with applicants via email. Any updates
of email or your online profile must be
made at: CS@city.cleveland.oh.us.
NOTE: YOU ARE NOT APPLYING
FOR AN IMMEDIATE JOB OPENING.
YOU ARE APPLYING TO TAKE AN
EXAMINATION WHICH WILL BE
USED TO CREATE AN ELIGIBLE
LIST FOR THIS JOB CLASSIFICATION. THAT LIST WILL BE USED
FOR FUTURE HIRES IN THIS JOB
CLASSIFICATION.
SALARY: The prevailing salary for
this position as established by Ordinance of the Council of the City of
Cleveland is $29.58 – $30.15 per Hour.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, resumes and any
other documents must be uploaded
and included with your Application
when it is submitted. Applications
without the required documents will
be rejected.
Duties:
Under supervision, is responsible for
all aspects of building and maintaining the traffic signal system except
the wiring and programming of the
signal controller. Erects and maintains all traffic signal installations
including, but not limited to, digging
and pouring foundations, setting signal supports, installing signal cable,
and wiring traffic and pedestrian signals. Troubleshoots power hook-ups.
Repairs power hook-ups and lead-ins.
Energizes the traffic signal to an
overhead and/or underground power
source lower than 600 volts. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and

March 28, 2018
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.

The City Record
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made electronically through the City of Cleveland’s
web site:
www.governmentjobs.com/careers/c
leveland

Minimum Qualifications:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Must have completed a
three-level apprenticeship program
administered by the City of Cleveland
or another recognized apprenticeship
program OR must be a certified electrician by the State of Ohio. (Substitution: Any experience as a Low or High
Tension Lineman other than with the
City of Cleveland may be substituted
for the City’s apprenticeship program.) A valid State of Ohio Class B
Commercial
Driver’s
License
is
required. Must be able to lift and
carry 75 pounds.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.

No other form or method of application will be accepted. Absolutely no
paper applications will be accepted.
THE ELECTRONIC APPLICATION
PERIOD IS FROM 12:01 A.M. ON SUNDAY, APRIL 1, 2018 UNTIL 11:59 PM.
ON SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15,
2018. NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL
NOT BE ACCEPTED AFTER 11:59
PM ON SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15,
2018.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
NOTE: ONCE YOU SUBMIT YOUR
APPLICATION, FURTHER CHANGES
TO THAT APPLICATION WILL NOT
BE PERMITTED.

VETERANS’ PREFERENCE
Veterans’ preference will be awarded,
when applicable, to eligible veterans
in accordance with Civil Service
Rules 4.40E, 4.40F and 4.40G.  Proof of
active service or a DD Form 214, must
be presented to the Commission at the
time of filing application for the
examination in which credit is sought
in order to qualify for veterans’ credit. If the applicant has received an
honorable discharge or a general discharge under honorable conditions
that applicant shall receive an additional five (5) points added to their
raw score on the examination.
THE
COMMISSION 
WILL
NOT ENTERTAIN APPEALS FOR
VETERANS’
PREFERENCE
OR
RESIDENCY CREDIT AFTER THE
APPLICANT HAS FILED HIS/HER
APPLICATION. THE DECISION OF
THE COMMISSION IS FINAL.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
Any applicant that willfully provides
any false document, statement, or certification in regard to any test will be
terminated from all processing,
removed from any eligible list, and
may face possible criminal prosecution.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 32
READ THIS TEST
ANNOUNCEMENT IN ITS ENTIRETY
BEFORE YOU BEGIN
YOUR APPLICATION!!
PATROL OFFICER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given, by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio, of an open competitive
examination for the above classification.

All correspondence, notifications, and
certifications will be via email. Certain notices an applicant may receive
will have specific deadlines for a
required email response. Applicants
should monitor their email accounts
closely, and promptly respond to all
notifications.
All additional attachments and any
updates of email or your online profile must be made at:
CS@city.cleveland.oh.us
Also, please type “Patrol Officer” in
the Subject line of that email.
IMPORTANT NOTE: At the time of
submitting an application, copies of
the following items are required to be
uploaded as attachments to that
application:
1. Proof of Education (as described
below);
2. Driver’s License or Government
Issued ID;
3. Proof of Residency (as described
below), which is only required if the
applicant is seeking residency credit
for the examination; and
4. DD-214 or other materials to prove
veteran’s status (as described below),
which is only required if the applicant is seeking veteran’s preference
points.
*These items should be uploaded
under the “Attachments” tab in your
application. They should be either
PDF or JPEG files.
NOTE: YOU ARE NOT APPLYING
FOR AN IMMEDIATE JOB OPENING.
YOU ARE APPLYING TO TAKE AN
EXAMINATION WHICH WILL BE
USED TO CREATE AN ELIGIBLE
LIST FOR THIS JOB CLASSIFICATION. THAT LIST WILL BE USED
FOR FUTURE HIRES IN THIS JOB
CLASSIFICATION.
FILING FEE
There is no filing fee or testing fee for
this examination.

19
hour. Upon successful completion of
the Academy, the salary for Patrol
Officer is $45,904.64 per year.
DUTIES
Under supervision of a Sergeant or
other superior officer, performs general and special police duty in an
assigned district or unit in the preservation of law and order. Protect life
and property. Enforces laws and ordinances. Prevents and detects crime.
Work involves an element of personal
danger. Must be willing and capable
of carrying any Divisional issued
weapon and wearing any Divisional
issued equipment or uniform. Testifies at administrative or judicial proceedings as required. Acts without
direct supervision and exercises independent judgment in meeting complex situations. Performs other jobrelated duties as required.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
AGE: Applicant must be a minimum
of 21 years of age and no older than 39
years of age AT THE TIME OF
APPOINTMENT TO THE CITY OF
CLEVELAND POLICE TRAINING
ACADEMY.
EDUCATION: Applicants must indicate in their application, and present
proof at the time of filing, that they
have received a High School Diploma* from an accredited educational
institution or have satisfactorily completed the General Education Development Test (GED). One of the following must be attached to your
application in either a PDF or JPEG
format at the time of filing:
A. High School Diploma
B. GED
C. Letter on official stationery from
High School or Board of Education
stating that the applicant did graduate.
D. DD-214 (Separation from Active
Duty) which specifically indicates
the individual graduated from High
School or passed the General Education Development Test.
*If the applicant graduated from, for
example, a Charter School was home
schooled, or graduated from a school
outside of Ohio applicant MUST be
able to document that the requirements of the state in which the diploma/GED was issued were met.
APPLICANTS MUST SUBMIT A
COPY OF PROOF OF IDENTITY,
AGE, AND EDUCATION WHEN
THEY FILE AN APPLICATION.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
RESERVES THE RIGHT TO VERIFY THE AFOREMENTIONED DOCUMENTS AND TO WITHHOLD THE
ACCEPTANCE OR REJECTION OF
APPLICATION UNTIL SUCH VERIFICATION CAN BE OBTAINED.
DRIVER’S LICENSE
Applicant must have a valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License PRIOR to
appointment to the Police Academy.
CITIZENSHIP

SALARY
The starting salary while in the
Police Training Academy is $15.00 per

437

Applicant must be a citizen of the
United States PRIOR to appointment
to the Police Academy.

The City Record

20
WORK HOURS
A Police Cadet and Patrol Officers
must be available to work any shift
on any day of the week.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: ELECTRONIC EXAMINATION
The examination will be administered electronically by National Testing Network (NTN). After applicants’
applications have been reviewed and
approved, they will be directed to
NTN’s website with an identifying
voucher number to schedule their
examination. NTN has testing centers
available in Cleveland and many
other locations nationally for candidates’ convenience. Applicants will
be responsible for scheduling and taking their examination during the testing period which will run from Monday, April 15, 2018 to Friday, December 28, 2018. Candidates MUST schedule their exams within 15 days of the
date their approval and voucher is
emailed.
NOTE: Any person who has taken an
NTN test for Law Enforcement must
note that NTN does not permit that
person to test again within 90 days of
testing. If an applicant filed for
another Patrol Officer exam in 2018,
Civil Service will utilize the most
recent test results in 2018 at his/her
request, but the applicant must apply
again in order to be on the more
recent eligible list. If more than 90
days have passed since the applicant
last tested for Cleveland with NTN,
the candidate may take the exam
again if he/she wishes to be placed on
the most current eligible list of candidates.
Please Note: The eligible list of candidates in this classification will be
updated and re-issued during 2018 to
include additional candidates who
have successfully tested. As candidates are added to the eligible list, it
will be re-ranked as of each establishment date. The following is a list of
cutoff dates for each eligible list that
will be created during this filing period. In order to possibly be included on
a list, the applicant needs to HAVE
TESTED on or before the cutoff date.
CUTOFF DATE

APPROXIMATE
DATE ELIGIBLE
LIST WILL BE
RE-ESTABLISHED

May 14, 2018
July 16, 2018
October 15, 2018
December 21, 2018

May 25, 2018
July 27, 2018
October 26, 2018
January 11, 2019

for Patrol Officer and receive Civil
Service Certification will be subject
to the following evaluation steps:
Physical Abilities Examination: The
test is designed to evaluate physical
ability to perform the duties of a
Patrol Officer. You will be scored on a
pass/fail basis, based on the time,
number of repetitions, etc. required
for you to complete the test. As candidates are tested throughout the year,
periodic Physical Abilities Testing
(PAT) will be conducted. The Division of Police will be offering conditioning camps to prepare candidates
for the PAT. Candidates can go to
Facebook and type in City of Cleveland Public Safety Recruitment and
click on Events to see a list of conditioning camp times, dates, and places
for the next week. They can also
email
cpdrecruitment@city.cleveland.oh.us or call 216-623-5233 to talk
to contact Police recruitment. The
standards for the components of the
exam (which are based on age and
gender), are listed at the end of this
announcement.
Drug Screening: Each applicant shall
undergo an examination for drug
usage. This examination may be in
the form of urinalysis. Any applicant
whose results from the drug screening examination are determined to be
positive shall be removed from the eligibility list unless such results can be
satisfactorily related to the advice of
a recognized medical practitioner.
Drug screening may also be conducted after appointment to the academy.
Background Investigation: Background investigation and evaluation
may include interviews with present
and previous employers. Neighbors
and family may be contacted as part
of the investigation. In addition, a
check of Local and State Police and
FBI records, both adult and juvenile,
and Bureau of Motor Vehicle records
will be made. The background test
also includes review of sealed and
expunged records. Unsatisfactory
findings in one or more of these areas
may be cause for removal from the
Civil Service eligibility list. Conviction of a felony is absolute grounds
for removal from the list. Any applicant convicted of a felony will be
removed from the eligible list and
will receive no further consideration.
There are also misdemeanor convictions that would result in the removal
of an applicant from the eligibility
list.

ADDITIONAL
SELECTION PROCEDURES

Psychological Evaluation: A psychological evaluation to determine the
applicant’s emotional suitability to
perform all aspects of the job will be
conducted. Each applicant may be
required to take several written
examinations. These, along with the
results of the background investigation, will be submitted to one or more
psychologist(s)/psychiatrist(s) who
will interview the candidates. All
records of the psychological and
background examinations will be
made available to the Civil Service
Commission. The Commission will
review such records and make the
final determination of each applicant’s suitability for removal from
the eligible list.

Applicants who receive a passing
grade on the written examination and
rank high enough on the eligible list

Medical Examination: Any appointment to the position of Patrol Officer
will be conditioned upon passing a

AMERICAN’S WITH
DISABILITIES ACT
Any individual with a disability who
requires reasonable accommodation
in order to compete effectively on this
examination should go the following
link:
https://www.nationaltestingnetwork.com/publicsafetyjobs/fa
qs.cfm
to read what NTN requires from the
individual taking one of its tests who
is requesting accommodation.

438

March 28, 2018
pre-employment medical examination
conducted in accordance with the provisions of Title I of the Federal American’s with Disabilities Act (ADA). A
copy of the ADA may be obtained
online. The standards for the medical
examination are available for review
online through the City’s website.
LIFE OF THE ELIGIBILITY LIST
The life of the eligibility list from this
examination will not exceed one year
from the date the list is established.
Candidates will remain eligible for no
more than one year from the date they
have been added to the eligibility list.
RESIDENCY CREDIT
In accordance with the Charter of the
City of Cleveland: A person who has
had as his/her primary residence in
the City of Cleveland for at least one
year at the time of filing a Civil Service application, and desires to take
an entry-level Civil Service examination, shall, if a passing grade on the
written examination is attained, have
ten (10) points added to his/her passing score.
In order to receive residency credit,
applicants must present the originals
OR LEGIBLE COPIES of 4 different
proofs of residency from ONE YEAR
AGO* and 4 different proofs of residency that are CURRENT** (A total
of EIGHT documents) for verification at the time of filing. (“Different”
means that an applicant can provide
(for example) a bank statement from
a year ago, and a current statement
for the same bank account, but cannot
provide multiple statements from the
same account for different months to
satisfy the 4 proofs requirement.
Such proofs include:
‚
‚
‚
‚
‚

Driver’s License
Bank Statements
Utility Bills
Mortgage or Lease Agreement
Bills from creditors not listed
above
‚ Other Postmarked mail such as
magazines with name and mailing
label
attached,
organization
newsletters, medical/dental bills,
voter registration card, or motor
vehicle registration
‚ Insurance Statement (Home insurance, rental insurance, car insurance or other insurance documents).
* “ONE YEAR AGO” SHALL BE ONE
YEAR PREVIOUS TO DATE OF FILING. For example, if you are filing for
the examination in April of 2018 you
must present 4 different documents
dated February or March or April of
2017.
** “CURRENT” SHALL BE WITH IN
THE LAST THREE MONTHS. For
example, if you are filing for the
examination in April of 2018 you must
present 4 different documents dated
February or March or April of 2018.
NOTE: IF CREDITORS ARE PAID
ONLINE, A COPY OF BILL IS TO BE
PRINTED
SHOWING
THE
ADDRESS OF THE APPLICANT.
THE BILL MUST HAVE THE DATE
VISIBLE.
NOTE: Applicants who are under the
age of 25 who do not have sufficient

March 28, 2018

The City Record

bills or items in their own name may
provide one or more proof documents
bearing their own name and Cleveland address, and supplement it with
the additional required proofs from a
spouse or blood relative with whom
they reside; provided that such other
person also provides a notarized
statement that the applicant has
resided with them at that address for
more than a year prior to the date of
application and provides the missing
documentation in their own name
with their Cleveland address.

THE POLICE
TRAINING ACADEMY

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 33

The Police Training Academy may
include classes in both the greater
Cleveland area as well as Columbus,
Ohio. Candidates being considered for
appointment into an Academy class
will be provided specific information
about the Academy at the time their
names are certified for processing.

REAL
ESTATE
MAINTENANCE
WORKER (OPEN)

NOTE: PURSUANT TO THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND
AND RULES OF THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION AND THE OHIO
REVISED CODE:
Any applicant that willfully provides
any false document, statement, or certification in regard to any test will be
terminated from all processing,
removed from any eligible list, and
may face possible criminal prosecution.
VETERANS’ PREFERENCE
Veterans’ preference will be awarded,
when applicable, to eligible veterans
in accordance with Civil Service
Rules 4.40E, 4.40F and 4.40G.  Proof of
active service or a DD Form 214, must
be presented to the Commission at the
time of filing application for the
examination in which credit is sought
in order to qualify for veterans’ credit. If the applicant has received an
honorable discharge or a general discharge under honorable conditions
that applicant shall receive an additional five (5) points added to their
raw score on the examination.
NOTE: Only DD Form 214 (long form)
or an official armed service document
indicating type of discharge or separation and the dates of active service
will be accepted as proof of active service.
NOTE: Applicants who desire additional Veterans’ Credit (as provided
for in Rule 4.40E) will be required to
submit a copy of an affidavit stating
the applicant’s date of separation
from active duty, date of discharge
and percentage of disability together
with documentation from the Veteran’s Administration confirming such
disability; and shall understand that
this affidavit will be subject to verification by the Civil Service Commission. Any false information provided
on this affidavit will be considered as
a falsification of application and
result in the applicant being removed
from the eligible list upon discovery
of the error (in accordance with Civil
Service Rule 5.40).
THE
COMMISSION 
WILL
NOT ENTERTAIN APPEALS FOR
VETERANS’
PREFERENCE
OR
RESIDENCY CREDIT AFTER THE
APPLICANT HAS FILED HIS/HER
APPLICATION. THE DECISION OF
THE COMMISSION IS FINAL.
TIE SCORES
In accordance with Civil Service Rule
5.10, in an Open examination, should
two or more applicants receive the
same grade, the order in which their
names shall be placed on the eligible
list shall be determined by random
selection.

21

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio, of an open competitive
examination for the above classification.

WAIVER OF RULES

FILING OF APPLICATION:

The Civil Service Commission hereby
waives all applicable rules or portions of its rules which may or may
not conflict with the Charter of the
City of Cleveland and/or litigation
involving this examination. In particular:

Application must be made electronically through the City of Cleveland’s
web site:

1. Rule 4.30D (The waiver of this Rule
shall mean that a medical examination will not be administered prior to
the establishment of the eligible list.)
2. Rule 4.30F (The waiver of this Rule
shall mean that applicants who fail
the psychological examination will
be automatically scheduled for reexamination to gain a second opinion.)
3. Rule 6.80 (The waiver of this Rule
shall mean that the probationary period for Patrol Officer shall be fixed at
six months, upon completion of the
Police Academy)
4. Rule 4.50 (The waiver of this Rule
shall mean that there will be no
review periods for this examination.)
The aforementioned Civil Service
Rules are hereby waived either in
their entirety or in part. The Commission retains the right to waive other
Rule requirements as appropriate.
Applicants having questions regarding these waivers should contact the
Civil Service Office at (216) 664-2467.
AGILITY TESTING
REQUIREMENTS
The Physical Agility Test is broken
down into three events: One minute of
pushups; One minute of sit ups; and a
1.5 mile run. Each event is further broken down into age groups (20 to 29
years of age or 30 to 39 years of age)
as well as by gender (male and
female).
On the following chart, the minimum
number of repetitions for the pushups
and the sit ups for each group is indicated. The maximum number of minutes and seconds allowed for the 1.5
mile run for each group is also noted.

http://www.city.cleveland.oh.us/City
ofCleveland/Home/Government/City
Agencies/CivilServiceCommission/T
estingAnnouncements
No other form or method of application will be accepted. Absolutely no
paper applications will be accepted.
THE ELECTRONIC APPLICATION
PERIOD IS FROM 12:01 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018 UNTIL 11:59
PM. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2018.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 11:59 PM ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2018.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
IMPORTANT NOTE: At the time of
submitting an application, copies of
the following items are required to be
uploaded as attachments to that
application:
1. Proof of Education (as provided
herein);
2. Driver’s License or Government
Issued ID;
3. Proof of Residency (as described
herein), which is only required if the
applicant is seeking residency credit
for the examination; and
4. DD-214 or other materials to prove
veteran’s status (as described herein)
only required if the applicant is seeking veteran’s preference points.
NOTE: All correspondence, notifications, and certifications will be made
with applicants via email. Any
updates of email or your online profile must be made at CS@city.cleveland.oh.us.
NOTE: YOU ARE NOT APPLYING
FOR AN IMMEDIATE JOB OPENING.
YOU ARE APPLYING TO TAKE AN
EXAMINATION WHICH WILL BE
USED TO CREATE AN ELIGIBLE
LIST FOR THIS JOB CLASSIFICATION. THAT LIST WILL BE USED
FOR FUTURE HIRES IN THIS JOB
CLASSIFICATION.

ONE MINUTE PUSH UPS

MALE
FEMALE

20 – 29 years
19
9

30 – 39 years
15
7

ONE MINUTE SIT UPS
20 – 29 years
MALE
32
FEMALE
23

30 – 39 years
28
18

1.5 MILE RUN
20 – 29 years
MALE
14:34
FEMALE
17:49

30 – 39 years
15:13
18:37

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

439

SALARY: The prevailing salary for
this position as established by Ordinance of the Council of the City of
Cleveland is $17.82 - $19.82 per Hour.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST: Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exams.
NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, resumes and any
other required documents must be
uploaded and included with your
application when it is submitted.
Applications without the required
documents will be rejected.

The City Record

22
Duties:
Maintains properties and structures
under the jurisdiction of the City of
Cleveland. Supervises the work of students and other seasonal employees
in maintaining said properties and
structures. TYPICAL TASKS: Performs mechanical and chemical grass
and weed cutting/removal. Operates
a tractor to complete this task.
Removes debris and rubbish and uses
vehicles under 26,000 lbs. GVW. Uses
hand and power tools. Maintains and
repairs structures owned by the City.
Supervises
seasonal
staff
as
assigned. Moves furniture and equipment. Performs janitorial and ground
maintenance services as required.
Assists in the distribution and inventory control of supplies, equipment.
and tools. Installs equipment and
fencing as needed. Performs other
duties as assigned. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
Minimum Qualifications
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in the upkeep of green
space is required. Must possess a
knowledge of ground maintenance
functions and various ground equipment. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
Any applicant that willfully provides
any false document, statement, or certification in regard to any test will be
terminated from all processing,
removed from any eligible list, and
may face possible criminal prosecution.
VETERANS’ PREFERENCE
Veterans’ preference will be awarded,
when applicable, to eligible veterans
in accordance with Civil Service
Rules 4.40E, 4.40F and 4.40G.  Proof of
active service or a DD Form 214, must
be presented to the Commission at the
time of filing application for the
examination in which credit is sought
in order to qualify for veterans’ credit. If the applicant has received an
honorable discharge or a general discharge under honorable conditions
that applicant shall receive an additional five (5) points added to their
raw score on the examination.
RESIDENCY CREDIT
In accordance with the Charter of the
City of Cleveland: A person who has
had as his/her primary residence in
the City of Cleveland for at least one
year at the time of filing a Civil Service application, and desires to take

an entry-level Civil Service examination, shall, if a passing grade on the
written examination is attained, have
ten (10) points added to his/her passing score.
In order to receive residency credit,
applicants must present the originals
OR LEGIBLE COPIES of 4 different
proofs of residency from ONE YEAR
AGO* and 4 different proofs of residency that are CURRENT** (A total
of EIGHT documents) for verification at the time of filing. (“Different”
means that an applicant can provide
(for example) a bank statement from
a year ago, and a current statement
for the same bank account, but cannot
provide multiple statements from the
same account for different months to
satisfy the 4 proofs requirement.
Such proofs include:
‚
‚
‚
‚
‚

Driver’s License
Bank Statements
Utility Bills
Mortgage or Lease Agreement
Bills from creditors not listed
above
‚ Other Postmarked mail such as
magazines with name and mailing
label
attached,
organization
newsletters, medical/dental bills,
voter registration card, or motor
vehicle registration
‚ Insurance Statement (Home insurance, rental insurance, car insurance or other insurance documents).
* “ONE YEAR AGO” SHALL BE ONE
YEAR PREVIOUS TO DATE OF FILING. For example, if you are filing for
the examination in April of 2018 you
must present 4 different documents
dated February or March or April of
2017.
** “CURRENT” SHALL BE WITH IN
THE LAST THREE MONTHS. For
example, if you are filing for the
examination in April of 2018 you must
present 4 different documents dated
February or March or April of 2018.
NOTE: IF CREDITORS ARE PAID
ONLINE, A COPY OF BILL IS TO BE
PRINTED
SHOWING
THE
ADDRESS OF THE APPLICANT.
THE BILL MUST HAVE THE DATE
VISIBLE.
NOTE: Applicants who are under the
age of 25 who do not have sufficient
bills or items in their own name may
provide one or more proof documents
bearing their own name and Cleveland address, and supplement it with
the additional required proofs from a
spouse or blood relative with whom
they reside; provided that such other
person also provides a notarized
statement that the applicant has
resided with them at that address for
more than a year prior to the date of
application and provides the missing
documentation in their own name
with their Cleveland address.
THE
COMMISSION 
WILL
NOT ENTERTAIN APPEALS FOR
VETERANS’
PREFERENCE
OR
RESIDENCY CREDIT AFTER THE
APPLICANT HAS FILED HIS/HER
APPLICATION. THE DECISION OF
THE COMMISSION IS FINAL.
ANYONE
REQUEST

WHO
WISHES
TO
AN ACCOMMODATION

440

March 28, 2018
MUST DO SO AT THE TIME OF FILING. THE COMMISSION WILL CONTACT THE INDIVIDUAL CONCERNING
SUCH
ACCOMMODATION
PRIOR TO THE EXAMINATION.
THE COMMISSION MAY REFUSE TO
PROVIDE SUCH ACCOMMODATION
IF IT IS NOT REASONABLE OR
WOULD CONSTITUTE AN UNDUE
HARDSHIP. CURRENT (WITHIN
ONE YEAR) DOCUMENTATION SUPPORTING THE NEED FOR THE
REQUESTED ACCOMMODATION IS
REQUIRED. SUCH DOCUMENTATION SHOULD BE SUBMITTED AT
THE TIME OF FILING.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 34
SAFETY TELEPHONE OPERATOR
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio, of an open competitive
examination for the above classification.
FILING OF APPLICATION:
Application must be made electronically through the City of Cleveland’s
web site:
http://www.city.cleveland.oh.us/City
ofCleveland/Home/Government/City
Agencies/CivilServiceCommission/T
estingAnnouncements
No other form or method of application will be accepted. Absolutely no
paper applications will be accepted.
THE ELECTRONIC APPLICATION
PERIOD IS FROM 12:01 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018 UNTIL 11:59
PM. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2018.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 11:59 PM ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2018.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
IMPORTANT NOTE: At the time of
submitting an application, copies of
the following items are required to be
uploaded as attachments to that
application:
1. Proof of Education (as provided
herein);
2. Driver’s License or Government
Issued ID;
3. Proof of Residency (as described
herein), which is only required if the
applicant is seeking residency credit
for the examination; and
4. DD-214 or other materials to prove
veteran’s status (as described herein)
only required if the applicant is seeking veteran’s preference points.
NOTE: All correspondence, notifications, and certifications will be made
with applicants via email. Any
updates of email or your online profile must be made at:
CS@city.cleveland.oh.us.
NOTE: YOU ARE NOT APPLYING
FOR AN IMMEDIATE JOB OPENING.
YOU ARE APPLYING TO TAKE AN
EXAMINATION WHICH WILL BE
USED TO CREATE AN ELIGIBLE
LIST FOR THIS JOB CLASSIFICATION. THAT LIST WILL BE USED
FOR FUTURE HIRES IN THIS JOB
CLASSIFICATION.

March 28, 2018
SALARY: The prevailing salary for
this position as established by Ordinance of the Council of the City of
Cleveland is $24,425.64 - $35,180.95 per
year.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST: 100% of
Final Grade.
TYPING TEST: This portion is
Pass/Fail and will be utilized to
determine if candidates meet this
minimum qualification. Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exams.
NOTE: CANDIDATES MUST BE
ABLE TO TYPE 30 WPM (Gross
words per minute minus errors).
FAILURE TO OBTAIN 30 WPM
MEANS THAT THE CANDIDATE
WILL RECEIVE A FINAL GRADE
OF ZERO.
NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, resumes and any
other required documents must be
uploaded and included with your
application when it is submitted.
Applications without the required
documents will be rejected.
Duties:
Answers emergency and non-emergency telephone calls from citizens,
elicits pertinent information, analyzes situations to determine problem, and makes sound decisions as to
the appropriate response. Learns the
proper procedures for handling various call types. Maintains familiarity
with the streets of the City and the
various social agencies available to
assist those in need. Generates incidents using the Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) system, following proper procedures and assigning each
incident an appropriate prioritization
level. Contacts other public safety
entities, city departments, and external agencies as needed. Operates the
necessary computer equipment used
in the Communications center. Operates the Emergency 911 telephone
equipment and the associated software used by the Department of Public Safety. Is familiar with applicable
state and municipal ordinances. Performs any other duties as directed by
proper authority. TYPICAL TASKS:
Answers incoming calls placed to 911
or non-emergency telephone lines.
Determines nature of problem and,
when appropriate, connects caller to
another agency for handling Generates a CAD incident for Public Safety
response by entering pertinent information relative to the incident into
the computerized dispatch system.
Follows procedures, assigning each
incident the appropriate coding and
prioritization. When a response is not
needed, makes referrals as needed to
the caller. Makes computer inquiries
into the CAD system or other database utilized by the department, as
needed. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

The City Record

23

Minimum Qualifications

Such proofs include:

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License or ID is required. Must
be able to type at least 30 words per
minute. Because this is a Police/Civilian position, candidates MUST BE
ABLE TO PASS A CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECK as well as a drug
test and physical. Must pass any certification testing required to perform
the duties of the position within six
months of the date of hire. Certifications include those required to access
the national and state criminal databases (LEADS, NCIC) as well as a 40hour public safety telecommunicator
course. Instruction in these or any
other job-specific certifications will
be provided as part of employee training.

‚
‚
‚
‚
‚

NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
Any applicant that willfully provides
any false document, statement, or certification in regard to any test will be
terminated from all processing,
removed from any eligible list, and
may face possible criminal prosecution.
VETERANS’ PREFERENCE
Veterans’ preference will be awarded,
when applicable, to eligible veterans
in accordance with Civil Service
Rules 4.40E, 4.40F and 4.40G.  Proof of
active service or a DD Form 214, must
be presented to the Commission at the
time of filing application for the
examination in which credit is sought
in order to qualify for veterans’ credit. If the applicant has received an
honorable discharge or a general discharge under honorable conditions
that applicant shall receive an additional five (5) points added to their
raw score on the examination.
RESIDENCY CREDIT
In accordance with the Charter of the
City of Cleveland: A person who has
had as his/her primary residence in
the City of Cleveland for at least one
year at the time of filing a Civil Service application, and desires to take
an entry-level Civil Service examination, shall, if a passing grade on the
written examination is attained, have
ten (10) points added to his/her passing score.
In order to receive residency credit,
applicants must present the originals
OR LEGIBLE COPIES of 4 different
proofs of residency from ONE YEAR
AGO* and 4 different proofs of residency that are CURRENT** (A total
of EIGHT documents) for verification at the time of filing. (“Different”
means that an applicant can provide
(for example) a bank statement from
a year ago, and a current statement
for the same bank account, but cannot
provide multiple statements from the
same account for different months to
satisfy the 4 proofs requirement.

441

Driver’s License
Bank Statements
Utility Bills
Mortgage or Lease Agreement
Bills from creditors not listed
above
‚ Other Postmarked mail such as
magazines with name and mailing
label
attached,
organization
newsletters, medical/dental bills,
voter registration card, or motor
vehicle registration
‚ Insurance Statement (Home insurance, rental insurance, car insurance or other insurance documents).
* “ONE YEAR AGO” SHALL BE ONE
YEAR PREVIOUS TO DATE OF FILING. For example, if you are filing for
the examination in April of 2018 you
must present 4 different documents
dated February or March or April of
2017.
** “CURRENT” SHALL BE WITH IN
THE LAST THREE MONTHS. For
example, if you are filing for the
examination in April of 2018 you must
present 4 different documents dated
February or March or April of 2018.
NOTE: IF CREDITORS ARE PAID
ONLINE, A COPY OF BILL IS TO BE
PRINTED
SHOWING
THE
ADDRESS OF THE APPLICANT.
THE BILL MUST HAVE THE DATE
VISIBLE.
NOTE: Applicants who are under the
age of 25 who do not have sufficient
bills or items in their own name may
provide one or more proof documents
bearing their own name and Cleveland address, and supplement it with
the additional required proofs from a
spouse or blood relative with whom
they reside; provided that such other
person also provides a notarized
statement that the applicant has
resided with them at that address for
more than a year prior to the date of
application and provides the missing
documentation in their own name
with their Cleveland address.
THE
COMMISSION 
WILL
NOT ENTERTAIN APPEALS FOR
VETERANS’
PREFERENCE
OR
RESIDENCY CREDIT AFTER THE
APPLICANT HAS FILED HIS/HER
APPLICATION. THE DECISION OF
THE COMMISSION IS FINAL.
ANYONE
WHO
WISHES
TO
REQUEST AN ACCOMMODATION
MUST DO SO AT THE TIME OF FILING. THE COMMISSION WILL CONTACT THE INDIVIDUAL CONCERNING
SUCH
ACCOMMODATION
PRIOR TO THE EXAMINATION.
THE COMMISSION MAY REFUSE TO
PROVIDE SUCH ACCOMMODATION
IF IT IS NOT REASONABLE OR
WOULD CONSTITUTE AN UNDUE
HARDSHIP. CURRENT (WITHIN
ONE YEAR) DOCUMENTATION SUPPORTING THE NEED FOR THE
REQUESTED ACCOMMODATION IS
REQUIRED. SUCH DOCUMENTATION SHOULD BE SUBMITTED AT
THE TIME OF FILING.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
March 28, 2018

The City Record

24
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 18-052: 430 Jefferson
Avenue (Ward 3)
JSAW3 LTD., owner, proposes to
establish
use
as
retail
and
6
dwelling units in a B1 Two Family
Residential
District.
The
owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 349.04 which states that
four off street parking spaces are
required for the retail space and six
off street spaces are required for
dwelling units and only four off
street spaces are proposed.
2. Section 355.03 which states that
no yard, open space or lot area provided for any building or group of
buildings shall be reduced or again
considered as the yard, open space
or lot area required for any other
building or additional construction
of the same lot or on another lot.
3. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the maximum gross floor area
shall not exceed 1/2 of the lot area.
(Filed February 26, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-059: 2249 West 6th
Street (Ward 3)
Nehemiah Smith, owner, proposes
to build a two family residence in a
B1 Two Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area for
any main building may not exceed
1/2 the total lot area. This section
also states that a minimum lot
frontage for a two family dwelling
unit is fifty (50) feet and the proposed frontage is less than fifty
(50) feet.
2. Section 357.08 which states that
the depth of a rear yard shall be not
less than fifteen percent (15%) of
the depth of the lot but in no case
less than twenty (20) feet; provided
that in a Two family District, such
depth shall be less than the height
of the main building.
3. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that the width of any such
interior side yard shall in no case
be less than one fourth (1/4) the
height of the main building on the
premises. (Filed March 2, 2018)
Calendar No. 18-066: 4202-04 Bucyrus
Avenue (Ward 13)
Igor Kaschinszki, owner, proposes
to place a storage container on a lot
in a B1 Local Retail Business. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1.
Section
337.231(b)(c)
which
states that no person shall place a
portable storage container on property without first obtaining a permit
issued by the Director of Building
and Housing. No portable storage
container may be located on a residential property for more than 30
days.
2. Section 357.13 (b) which states
that parking in required side street

March 28, 2018

yard is not permitted encroachment.
(Filed March 9, 2018)

POSTPONED FROM
MARCH 5, 2018

Waste Collection Appeal
Calendar
No.
18-067:
908
Ruple
Avenue (Ward 15)
Beverly
Greer,
owner,
appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances and
disputes the decision of the hearing
examiner
in
Parking
Violations
Bureau on March 2, 2018 concerning
the City of Cleveland Waste Collection issuance of Civil Infraction
Ticket Number WC00354886 issued
January 2, 2018 regarding failure to
comply with Section 551.111(B) in
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
(Filed March 9, 2018)

Calendar No. 18-35: 1956 East 79th
Street (Ward 7)
Abdel Abukhalil, owner, proposes
to erect a two story medical office
and retail pharmacy building in an
MMUD1 district. The owner appeals
for relief from the strict application
of Section 344.07 which states that a
building in the MMUD 1 District has
a minimum height requirement of 3
occupied stories; proposed building
is 2 stories. (Filed January 24, 2018
– No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the councilman to allow
for time for a meeting with the
adjacent neighbors to take place.

Calendar No. 18-068: 1349 West 65th
Street (Ward 15)
Doug Gertz, owner, proposes to
erect a 2 story, 1,755 square foot, one
family
structure
and
detached
garage in a B1 Two Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the strict application
of the following sections of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
in a “B” area district, the maximum
gross floor area cannot exceed 1/2
the lot area. In this case the maximum gross floor area permitted is
1,653 and 1,755 square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that the width of the interior
side yard cannot be less than 1/4
the height of the building; a 3 foot
side yard is proposed and a 6.5 foot
side yard is required. (Filed March
9, 2018)

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

POSTPONED FROM
FEBRUARY 12, 2018
Calendar No. 18-12: 2011 Broadview
Road (Ward 13)
Ashok Kumar, owner, proposes to
change use from bar to retail stores
(front building and garage) in a B1
Local Retail Business District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 349.04(f) which states
that parking for retail stores is
required at the rate of one space per
each 500 square feet and no striped
parking spaces shown.
2. Section 349.07(a) which states
that the parking area must be
paved, and graded for drainage of
all water within the lot. No surfacing or drainage details are shown.
3. Sections 352.08 through 352.12
which state that six foot wide landscaping strip is required where lot
abuts residential district. No landscaping plan submitted.
4. Section 352.07(b)(2)(A) which
states that a continuation of a nonconformity in landscaping upon a
change of use requires the approval
of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
5. Section 327.02(e) which states
that a site plan showing all features
of the property, including parking
spaces,
landscaping,
paved
and
unpaved areas, and driveways is
required. (Filed January 9, 2018 - No
Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant due to a
scheduling conflict.

442

MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
26, 2018 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 18-53: 1801 West 50th
Street
Ray and Suzanne Tonsing, owners, proposes to erect a new single
family home with detached garage
in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar
No.
18-54:
3508
Siam
Avenue
Cleveland Bricks, owner, proposes
to construct a new attached garage
onto existing two family house
located in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 18-55: 1539 West 102nd
Street
JJK-GAAS LLC., owner, proposes
to change use to auto repair and
painting of motor vehicles in a B2
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 18-56: 12909 Lenacrave
Avenue
Cassandra James, owner, proposes
to establish use as a Type “A” (12
children) daycare center in a B1
Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 18-60: 14901 Lawndale
Avenue
Judy Jolly-Cooper, owner, appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

None.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 17-324: 4Ever
Club
5437 Broadway Avenue.

Social

The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.

The City Record

March 28, 2018
The following cases were POSTPONED:
None.
The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, March 19, 2018 and the decisions were adopted and approved on
Monday, March 26, 2018:
Calendar No. 18-14: 8700 Denison
Avenue
Mihai Dobre, owner, proposes to
erect a storage building on a vacant
lot and use property as storage on
a parcel of land that is located in a
B1 Two-Family Residential and a C2
Local Retail Business.
Calendar No. 18-47: 1262 West Boulevard
F.W. Pinard Building Co., owner,
proposes to erect a 55' x 42' frame
fee simple single family residence
with attached garage in an A1 OneFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 18-48: 10011 Clifton
Boulevard
F.W. Pinard Building Co., owner,
proposes to erect a 55' x 42' frame
fee simple single family residence
with attached garage in an A1 OneFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 18-50: 17305 Grovewood
Avenue
Hive City, LLC., owner, proposes
to establish use as office and retail
business in a C1 Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 18-51: 3600 Euclid
Avenue
IUOE Local 18, owner, proposes to
install a new 6 foot tall wrought
iron fence in a C4 Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 18-57: 3333 Lorain
Avenue
K & Z Mutual Realty, owner, proposes to establish use as Planet Fitness (indoor recreational use) in a
D3 Local Retail Business District
and a Pedestrian Retail Overlay District (PRO).
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
March 21, 2018
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is given
for publication in the City Record:
*  *  *
Docket A-255-17.
RE: Appeal of (Jack) & Maryann
Ricchiuto,
Owners
of
the
Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence
Two
Story
Masonry
Walls/Wood Floors Property, located on the premises known as 3024
Carroll Avenue from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated November 21, 2017

of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until April 15, 2018 to
obtain all required permits, and
until October 1, 2018 to complete
abatement of the violations, noting
that the property is to remain
groomed and debris-free during that
entire period of time; failure to meet
either date, the property will be
Remanded immediately; the property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
Docket A-257-17.
RE: Appeal of Jack Ricchiuto,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Masonry Walls/Wood Floors Property, located on the premises known
as 3024 Carroll Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
November 21, 2017 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until April 15, 2018 to
obtain all required permits, and
until October 1, 2018 to complete
abatement of the violations, noting
that the property is to remain
groomed and debris-free during that
entire period of time; failure to meet
either date, the property will be
Remanded immediately; the property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
Docket A-1-18.
RE: Appeal of Michael J. Kaczmarski, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 3333 West
98th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated December 1, 2017 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until July 1, 2018 to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

443

25
Docket A-7-18.
RE: Appeal of John R. Mance,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 11012 Thrush
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 19, 2017 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until June 1, 2018 to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
Docket A-10-18.
RE: Appeal of Zivka Pejanovic,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3110
Hancock
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
November 21, 2017 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until August 1, 2018 to
complete abatement of the violations, after securing Rental Registration for the property as required;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
Docket A-11-18.
RE: Appeal of Caroleanne Danszczak, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 3409 West
98th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS
&
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 4, 2017 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s request for additional
time; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

The City Record

26
Docket A-13-18.
RE: Appeal of Ricardo Dones,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
7922
Madison
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — NO
PERMIT, dated December 20, 2017 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until April 1, 2018 to complete abatement of the violations by
obtaining a permit; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
Docket A-14-18.
RE: Appeal of Mabel Property,
LLC, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence One &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
4460 West 149th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated January 3, 2018 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-14-18 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for April
4, 2018.
*  *  *
Docket A-15-18.
RE: Appeal of Carlee Golphin
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 3559 East 140th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated November 20, 2017 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s appeal request for additional time, noting the hazardous
conditions presented in the photographic evidence; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
Docket A-17-18.
RE: Appeal of Robert Gollin,
Owner of the R-2 Residential — Nontransient
Apartments
(Shared
Egress) Two Story Masonry Property, located on the premises known
as 13817 Argus Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated December 22, 2017 of the

Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until June 1, 2018 to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned
by
Mr.
Maschke
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
Docket A-18-18.
RE: Appeal of Jason Pecjak,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
2353
West
17th
Street
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
December 29, 2017 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s appeal request for additional
time;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
Docket A-19-18.
RE: Appeal of Antwane Moore,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
5007
McBride
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE
DAMAGE, dated January 12, 2018 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code.
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s appeal request for additional
time;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
Docket A-60-18.
RE: Appeal of HH Cleveland
Huntington LP, Owner of the Property, located on the premises known
as 925 Euclid Avenue from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER,
dated
March 14, 2018 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).

444

March 28, 2018
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to permit up to 400 occupants
for nine (9) events, starting March
7, 2018 and ending on December 16,
2018; the Appellant shall submit a
plan for each event two (2) weeks
prior to that event; the Appellant
will incorporate the existing temporary sprinkler system located in the
lower lobby and other pertinent
improvements and safety features
as presented on the drawings including a fire watch as noted in their
appeal letter dated March 15, 2018.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Maschke
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-167-17.
Leslie King II — 2209 East 80th
Street:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant until June 1,
2018 to complete abatement of the
violations, noting that no further
extensions will be granted; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-238-17 — Birnbaum Family Ltd.
Partnership
A-260-17 — Kirk Montlack, Ltd.
A-2-18 — Marline Simmons
A-3-18 — Michelle M. Grida
A-5-18 — Roosevelt Howell/Juannetta Lewis
A-6-18 — LaCardaire Thedford Jr.
A-8-18 — Loretta Gordon
A-9-18 — Grant & Helen Evans
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
March 7, 2018
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*  *  *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

The City Record

March 28, 2018
PUBLIC NOTICE
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
CITY RECORDS COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND
Notice is hereby given, in accordance with Ohio Revised Code Section 121.22(F) and City of Cleveland
Codified
Ordinances
Section
167.01(a), that the City Records
Commission of the City of Cleveland
will hold a public meeting on Tuesday, April 10, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., in
the City’s Law Department located
in Room 106 of Cleveland City Hall,
601 Lakeside Avenue, East, Cleveland, Ohio, for the purpose of holding the Commission’s semi-annual
meeting for 2018 to consider proposed retention schedules and any
other
business
with
respect
to
records
retention
and
disposal
requests and questions.
March 28, 2018, April 4, 2018

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY of CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
File No. 35-18 — 2018 Summer Foods
Cam p G e o r g e F o r b e s , f o r t h e
Division of Recreation, Department
of Public Works, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1278-17, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 4, 2017.
THER E
WILL
BE
A
NONMANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
THURSDAY APRIL 5, 2018 AT 10:30
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL, 601
LAK E S I D E A V E N U E , C L E V E LAND, OHIO 44114, ROOM 8.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT T H E O F F I C E O F T H E
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND S U P P L I E S , C L E V E L A N D
CIT Y H A L L , 6 0 1 L A K E S I D E
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
File No. 36-18 — 2018 Summer Foods
Prog r a m , f o r t h e D i v i s i o n o f
Recreation, Department of Public
Works, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1278-17, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, December
4, 2017.
THER E
WILL
BE
A
NONMANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
THURSDAY APRIL 5, 2018 AT 11:00
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL, 601
LAK E S I D E A V E N U E , C L E V E LAND, OHIO 44114, ROOM 8.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT T H E O F F I C E O F T H E
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND S U P P L I E S , C L E V E L A N D
CIT Y H A L L , 6 0 1 L A K E S I D E
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
March 21, 2018 and March 28, 2018
THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 2018
File No. 37-18 — First Energy Stadium
Property Insurance, for the Division
of
Property
Management,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THER E
WILL
BE
A
NONMANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
TUESDAY, APRIL 10, 2018 AT 10:30
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL, 601
LAK E S I D E A V E N U E , C L E V E LAND, OHIO 44114, ROOM 18.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT T H E O F F I C E O F T H E
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND S U P P L I E S , C L E V E L A N D
CIT Y H A L L , 6 0 1 L A K E S I D E
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
File No. 38-18 — PVC and FRE Ductline
Materials, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 804-14,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, July 16, 2014.
THER E
WILL
BE
A
NONMANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018 AT
11:30 A.M. CLEVELAND PUBLIC
POW E R ,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVE N U E , C L E V E L A N D , O H I O
44114, CENTENNIAL ROOM.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT T H E O F F I C E O F T H E
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND S U P P L I E S , C L E V E L A N D
CIT Y H A L L , 6 0 1 L A K E S I D E

445

27
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
March 28, 2018 and April 4, 2018
WEDNESDAY, MAY 2, 2018
File No. 39-18 — Powdered Activated
Carbon, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Section 129.24 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONMANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 2018 AT
10:00 A.M. CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE
COMMISSIONER OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES, CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12 O’CLOCK
NOON (EASTERN TIME).
March 28, 2018 and April 4, 2018

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 274-18.
By Council Members Brady and
Kelley.
An emergency resolution opposing
proposed “right to work” Constitutional amendments and supporting
fair labor practices that support
working families and Cleveland’s
economy.
Whereas, special interest groups
are supporting purported “right to
work” Constitutional amendments,
which are actually corporate-backed
attacks on working families and the
middle class; and
Whereas, so-called “right to work”
laws give multi-national corporations even more power to outsource
jobs, cut wages and reduce benefits
at the expense of workers, small
businesses and the local economy;
and
Whereas, workers in states with
supposed “right to work” laws have
a consistently lower quality of life
than in other states: lower wages,
higher poverty and infant mortality
rates,
less
access
to
necessary
health care and poorer education for
their children; and
Whereas, these so-called “right to
work” laws weaken the voices of
nurses, firefighters, police officers
and first responders by making it
harder to bargain for safe staffing
levels and necessary safety equipment; and
Whereas,
purported
“right
to
work” laws will silence whistleblowers who are counted on to keep
workplaces safe, protect consumer
goods, services and products and
safeguard natural resources and the
environment; and
Whereas, the implementation of
so-called “right to work” laws will
erode the tax base that supports
vital services in communities, such
as education, public safety, and
infrastructure; and

28
Whereas, in 2011, Ohio voters
rejected a similar political attack on
Ohio’s workers and the middle class
by overwhelmingly voting “no” on
the “right to work” issue, and this
Council maintains that the collective
bargaining rights of workers should
be protected; and
Whereas,
business
and
labor
should work together to create good
jobs and improve the economy, not
be distracted by outside groups that
want to silence the voices of workers and drive down the middle class;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That this Council opposes proposed “right to work” Constitutional amendments and supports
fair labor practices that support
working families and Cleveland’s
economy.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to all members of the
Ohio General Assembly and to Governor John Kasich.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Res. No. 305-18.
By Council Members Kelley, J.
Jones, Bishop, McCormack, Johnson,
Cleveland,
Griffin,
B.
Jones,
Polensek, Conwell, Hairston, Brady,
Brancatelli, Santana, Zone, Kazy
and Keane.
An emergency resolution supporting the passage of the Health &
Human Services levy renewal on
Tuesday May 8, 2018.
Whereas, the 2018 renewal of
Cuyahoga County’s 3.9-mill Health &
Human Services levy will ensure
that children, seniors, families and
people in crisis continue to receive
critical services; and
Whereas, revenues generated by
the Health & Human Services levy
support:
• Emergency services like MetroHealth’s
premier
Level
One
Trauma and Burn Center;
• MetroHealth Life Flight and
Neonatal Intensive Care Unit;
• Services and programs to protect children at risk of abuse or
neglect;
• Home health care and services
to help senior citizens live independently;
• Counseling and treatment programs for children with behavioral health or drug problems;
• Pre-kindergarten
and
health
programs to make sure children
enter school healthy, prepared
and ready to learn; and
• Crisis services for our most vulnerable citizens, whenever the
need arises.

The City Record
Whereas, the Health & Human
Services levy is a critical piece of
our community safety net, available
for all of us at any time; and
Whereas, without voter approval
of the Health & Human Services
levy, these programs will lose $200
million in funding, forcing deep cuts
to vital emergency services and programs that protect children, provide
a variety of services that seniors
depend on and help people living
with mental illness; and
Whereas,
the
2018
Health
&
Human Services levy renewal is not
a tax increase; and
Whereas, this Council recognizes
the far-reaching importance of the
passage of the Health and Human
Services Levy; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That this Council supports the passage of the Health &
Human Services levy renewal on
Tuesday May 8, 2018.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Cuyahoga
County
Executive
Armond
Budish.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Res. No. 311-18.
By Council Member J. Jones.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
4071 Lee Road, Suite 210.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New C2
Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar #2370, 4071 Lee Road, Suite
210, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permit
Number 23612750025; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and

446

March 28, 2018
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar #2370, 4071 Lee Road, Suite
210, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permit
Number 23612750025; and requests
the Superintendent of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Res. No. 312-18.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2, C2X, D6 and D8
Liquor Permit at 1015 East 185th
Street and repealing Resolution No.
521-17 objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2,
C2X, D6 and D8 Liquor Permit to R
C Brothers, Inc., DBA McBills Beverage, 1015 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number
7148634 by Resolution No. 521-17
adopted by the Council on May 1,
2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X,
D6 and D8 Liquor Permit to R C
Brothers, Inc., DBA McBills Beverage, 1015 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number

March 28, 2018
7148634, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 52117, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Res. No. 313-18.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 870
East 185th Street and repealing Resolution No. 981-17 objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit to Carla LaGrutta, DBA
Quix, 870 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number
4969821 by Resolution No. 981-17,
adopted by the Council on August
16, 2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit
based upon a cooperation agreement
between the Councilmember and the
permit holder; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to Carla LaGrutta, DBA Quix,
870 East 185th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44119,
Permanent
Number
4969821, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 98117, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Res. No. 314-18.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor 13601
Lorain Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 254-17 objecting to said
permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a transfer of ownership of a C1
liquor permit to SUN136 Corp., DBA
Lorain Sunoco, 13601 Lorain Avenue,

The City Record
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permit Number 8694459 by Resolution No. 254-17
adopted by the Council on March 6,
2017; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 liquor
permit to SUN136 Corp., DBA Lorain
Sunoco, 13601 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permit Number
8694459, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 25417, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Res. No. 335-18.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at 2288 East 55th Street, 1st
floor unit.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New C2
and D6 Liquor Permit at Fifty Five
Deli, Inc., DBA Fifty Five Deli
Express, 2288 East 55th Street, 1st
floor unit, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permit Number 2714519; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

447

29
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
and D6 Liquor Permit at Fifty Five
Deli, Inc., DBA Fifty Five Deli
Express, 2288 East 55th Street, 1st
floor unit, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permit
Number
2714519;
and
requests
the
Superintendent
of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Ord. No. 1460-17.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to enter into a Partial Release of
Easement Agreement with University
Circle
Incorporated,
or
its
designee, regarding certain easement rights in property located near
the
southeast
corner
of
Euclid
Avenue and vacated East 117th
Street for purposes of redevelopment, and declaring that the easement interests are not needed for
the City’s public use.
Whereas, University Circle Incorporated, or its designee (“University
Circle”) has requested the Director
of Capital Projects to release certain
easement rights in property located
near the southeast corner of Euclid
Avenue and vacated East 117th
Street, except for 4.356 square feet
within the easement that has an
ADA-compliant ramp (the “Easement”); and
Whereas,
University
Circle
requires the Easement area which is
needed for a joint development
between them and the Cleveland
Institute of Art to build a student
housing facility; and
Whereas, the Easement area is
not needed for the City’s public use;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

30
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that an easement interest in
the following described property is
not needed for the City’s public use:
PPN 120-31-002 EASEMENT
RELEASE LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot No. 3 in the Marcus E. Cozad
and Sarah L. Cozad Re-Allotment of
part of the Cozad’s Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 395, 396, 403, and 404, as shown
by the recorded Plat Volume 9, Page
28
of
Cuyahoga
County
Map
Records, being more fully bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at the centerline intersection of Euclid Avenue, 80 feet
wide, and vacated East 117th Street,
50 feet wide; thence South 47°17'07"
East along the centerline of said
vacated East 117th Street, a distance
of 40.00 feet to a point in the easterly right of way of said Euclid
Avenue and at a northwesterly corner of Cuyahoga County parcel number
120-31-002
now
or
formerly
owned by University Circle Development Foundation as recorded in
deed book volume 12185 page 873 of
the
Cuyahoga
County
records;
thence North 42°54'23" East along
the easterly line of said Euclid
Avenue 29.46 feet to a point, said
point also known as the Principle
Place of Beginning for the easement
area herein described;
Course
No.
1
thence
North
42°54'23" East continuing along the
easterly right of way of said Euclid
Avenue, a distance of 80.54 feet to a
drill hole set at a northwesterly corner of Cuyahoga County parcel no.
120-30-116 now or formerly owned by
Joseph Londrico Jr. and Anthony
Londrico
as
recorded
in
AFN
201307161034 of the Cuyahoga County records;
Course
No.
2
thence
South
47°17'07" East along a westerly line
of said Londrico land, a distance of
10.00 feet to a point;
Course
No.
3
thence
South
42°54'36" West through said University Circle Development Foundation lands, a distance of 79.56 feet
to a point;
Course
No.
4
thence
South
02°05'24" East, a distance of 7.67
feet to a point along the Northeasterly line of said vacated East 117th
Street;
Course
No.
5
thence
North
47°17'07" West along said vacated
Right of Way, a distance of 13.53
feet to a point;
Course No. 6 thence North 19°
50'46" East, a distance of 4.84 feet
to the Principal Place of Beginning,
said containing 0.0198 acres, 861
square feet of land in parcel 120-31002, according to a survey by Anthony L. Maione, P.S., Registered surveyor No. 8544, of Langan Engineering and Environmental Services
dated February 2017 and being the
same more or less and being subject
to all legal highways and easements.
Section 2. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to

The City Record
enter into a Partial Release of Easement Agreement on behalf of the
City subject to any conditions stated in this ordinance. The Partial
Release
of
Easement
shall
be
approved by the Director of Law
and filed with the County Recorder.
The consideration to be paid for the
partial release of easement shall not
exceed $11,700, and other valuable
consideration, determined to be fair
market value.
Section 3. That the Directors of
Capital Projects and Law are authorized to execute any other documents, including without limitation,
contracts for right of entry, as may
be necessary to effect this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Ord. No. 18-18.
by Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Aero Mag 2000 CLE, LLC for the
lease of space in the North Cargo
Facility Building at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for operation of an aircraft deicing support
and vehicle maintenance facility, for
the Department of Port Control, for
a period of two years, with three
one-year options to renew, the first
of which is exercisable through
additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease Agreement (“Lease”)
with
AeroMag
2000
CLE,
LLC.
(“Lessee”) for use and occupancy of
approximately 21,271 square feet of
space located in the North Cargo
Facility Building at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (“Leased
Premises”) for operation of an aircraft deicing support and vehicle
maintenance facility. The term of
the Lease shall be for a two year
period, with three one-year options
to renew. The first one-year option
to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative authority.
If such additional legislative authority is granted and the one-year
option to renew is exercised, then
the second and third one-year option
to renew may be exercisable at the
option of the Director of Port Control, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this
Council. For use of the Leased
Premises during the initial period,
Lessee shall pay the City an annual rate of $48,999, payable in equal
monthly amounts of $4,083.25, which
is equal to $2.25 per square foot for

448

March 28, 2018
20,620 square feet of warehouse
space and $4.00 per square foot for
651 square feet of office space,
based on an independent third-party
appraisal. For each option term, the
rental rate shall be adjusted based
on the United States Department of
Labor, Consumer Price Index: “All
Urban Consumers” Cleveland and
Akron, OH; however, never lower
than the rate during the initial term.
Section 2. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Ord. No. 19-18.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Worldwide Flight Services, Inc. for
the lease of space in the South
Cargo Facility Building at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
for operation of an air cargo facility, for the Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with
three one-year options to renew, the
first of which is exercisable through
additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease Agreement (“Lease”)
with Worldwide Flight Services, Inc.
(“Lessee”) for use and occupancy of
approximately 3,500 square feet of
space located in the South Cargo
Facility Building at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (“Leased
Premises”) for operation of an air
cargo facility. The term of the
Lease shall be for a two year period, with three one-year options to
renew. The first one-year option to
renew may not be exercised without
additional legislative authority. If
such additional legislative authority
is granted and the one-year option
to renew is exercised, then the second and third one-year option to
renew may be exercisable at the
option of the Director of Port Control, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this
Council. For use of the Leased
Premises during the initial period,
Lessee shall pay the City an annual rate of $24,500, which is equal to
$7.00 per square foot based on an
independent third-party appraisal.
For each option term exercised, the
rental rate shall be adjusted based
on the United States Department of
Labor, Consumer Price Index: “All
Urban Consumers” Cleveland and
Akron, OH; however not lower than
the rate during the initial term,
payable in monthly installments.

March 28, 2018
Section 2. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Ord. No. 79-18.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for and accept
grants
from
the
United
States
Department of Housing and Urban
Development for the PY2018 under
the Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for
the 2018 Federal HOME Investment
Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to apply for and accept grants
from the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
in
the
following
approximate
amounts: $19,324,970 to conduct the
PY2018
Community
Development
Block
Grant
(CDBG)
Program;
$3,458,438 to conduct the Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act
(HOME) Program; $1,744,977 to conduct the Emergency Solutions Grant
(ESG) Program; and $1,096,050 for
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) Program,
for the purposes and uses set forth
in the budgets and in compliance
with the requirements of Title I of
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and applicable
rules and regulations. That the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grants,
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the budgets for the grants.
Section 2. That the budget allocations for the grants, placed in File
No. 79-18-A, made a part hereof as if
fully rewritten herein, are approved
in all respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

The City Record
Ord. No. 150-18.
By Council Members McCormack,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing Agreement with
Project 29 Partners LLC, or its
designee, for the redevelopment of a
parking
lot
on
Detroit
Avenue
between West 28th Street and West
29th Street; to provide for payments
to the Cleveland City School District; and to declare certain improvements to real property to be a public purpose.
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, improvements to
real property may be declared to be
a public purpose where fee title to
the real property was, at one time,
held by the City of Cleveland and
the real property is then leased or
conveyed by the City; and
Whereas, the City has entered into
the chain of title for the Property
which is more particularly described
in the File set forth in this ordinance (the “Real Property”) pursuant to the requirements of Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code prior to
the passage of this ordinance; and
Whereas, the Real Property is to
be developed in accordance with the
Cleveland 2020 Citywide Plan, a
copy of which is placed in File No.
150-18-A; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code , the improvements declared to be a public purpose may be exempt from real property taxation; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the owners of the
improvements may be required to
make annual service payments in
lieu of taxes that would have been
paid had the improvement not been
exempt; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the exemption
may exceed 75% of the improvements for up to 30 years when a portion of the service payments so collected are distributed to the Cleveland City School District (“District”)
in an amount equal to the amount
the District would have received
had
the
improvement
not
been
exempt; and
Whereas, the District has been
notified of the intent to enter into
the agreement authorized by this
ordinance in compliance with Sections 5709.41(C)(4) and 5709.83 of
the Revised Code; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the improvements
to be constructed by Project 29 Partners LLC, or its designee, (“Redeveloper”), are declared to be a public purpose for purposes of Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code. The
Real
Property
is
more
fully
described as follows:
EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
PARCEL “C”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio known as being Parcel “C” of
the Lot Consolidation Plat for Project 29 Partners LLC. recorded in

449

31
AFN
201709290383
of
Cuyahoga
County Records and known as being
part of sublots 66 and all of sublot
69,70,71,72 in the Charles Taylor
Farm Allotment of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 51 as
recorded in Volume 2, Page 22 of
Cuyahoga County Records and all of
sublot 25 of the Barber & Lord’s Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township 51 as recorded in Volume 11, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records, also known as all of
“Lot 2” and all of “Parcel 2” in the
Plat of Lot Split and Consolidation
for MeToo, LLC recorded in AFN
201705260523 of Cuyahoga County
records and all of Parcel “A” in the
Lot Split and Consolidation for
Hingetown LLC recorded in AFN
201707210278 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being further bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a monument box
with drill hole in a stone found at
the intersection of the centerline of
Detroit Ave., 66 feet wide, where it
meets the centerline of West 28th
Street, 66 feet wide; Thence South
59°27'50" West, along the centerline
of Detroit Ave, a distance of 145.60
feet
to
a
point;
Thence
South
13°27'10" East a distance of 34.52
feet to a point on the southerly right
of way line of Detroit Ave. and
known as the Principal Place of
Beginning.
Thence continuing South 13°27'10"
East a distance of 220.87 feet to a
5/8" capped iron pin set on the
northerly right of way line of
Church Ave., 66' wide,;
Thence
South
76°52'20"
West,
along the northerly right of way
line of Church Ave, a distance of
153.87 feet to a Mag Nail found at
an angle point in the right of way;
Thence South 60°19'28" West, continuing along the northerly right of
way line of Church Ave., a distance
of 58.43 feet to a Mag Nail found
(said nail found off 0.05 feet north
and 0.05 feet west);
Thence North 29°38'03" West a
distance of 166.49 feet to a 5/8"
capped iron pin set on the southerly right of way line of Detroit Ave.;
Thence
North
60°20'12"
East,
along the southerly right of way
line of Detroit Ave., a distance of
148.10 feet to a 3/4" iron pipe found
at an angle point in the right of
way (said iron pipe found being off
0.41 feet north and 0.19 feet west);
Thence North 59°27'50" East, continuing along the southerly right of
way line of Detroit Ave., a distance
of 119.43 feet to a 5/8" capped iron
pin set on the southerly right of the
line of Detroit Ave and at the principal place of beginning and containing 1.0111 acres (44,043 square
feet) of land as surveyed by Stephen
Hovancsek & Associates, Inc. in
May of 2017, under the direction of
Ryan A. Snezek, Registered Surveyor No. 8495, State of Ohio, be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways.
The basis of bearing for this
description being the state plane
coordinate system. All capped iron
pins set are 5/8-inch diameter rebar,
30 inches long with a yellow plastic
cap stamped SH&A 8495.
Section 2. That one hundred percent (100%) of the Improvements
are declared exempt from real property taxation for a period of thirty
years; and that in no event shall the
exemption period extend beyond

32
2050. The terms of the agreement
are as follows:
DEPARMENT OF
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
SUMMARY FOR THE
LEGISLATIVE FILE
Project Name:
Church & State
Project Address:
Between West
28th and West
29th Streets on
Detroit Avenue
Cleveland, OH 44113
Developer:
Project 29 Partners
LLC and/or designee
Project Manager:
Richard Barga
Ward/Councilperson: 3 - McCormack
City Assistance:
Non-School TIF
Project Summary and Discussion
Two
parking
lots
on
Detroit
Avenue in Ohio City have been targeted for development of a $50 million project with approximately 161
apartments and over 20,000 SF of
retail space. Located between West
28th and West 29th Streets on
Detroit Avenue, Church & State will
have two buildings, one eleven stories high and the other seven stories, and include 211 indoor parking
spaces. The buildings will be separated by a public space, including a
splash fountain and seating for public events or concerts. The retail currently targeted includes a pharmacy, laundry, a hardware store or tool
lending library. The buildings, located on a RTA bus route will also
include 177 spaces for bike storage.
This form of dense residential development will support transit use,
walkability and bring more residents to the neighborhood.
The additional housing proposed
with this project will provide much
needed supply to an area that is in
high demand for people looking to
live downtown—where occupancy
has soared to nearly 98%. As young
professionals
and
empty
nesters
flock to downtown, they are sure to
be attracted to this project for the
possibility of living within walking
distance to many amenities downtown and Ohio City while maintaining the ease of access beyond downtown. The redevelopment is expected to be completed in second quarter of 2020.
Proposed City Assistance
The request to Cleveland City
Council is to authorize the Director
of Economic Development to enter
into a non-school Tax Increment
Finance (TIF) agreement with Project 29 Partners LLC or its designee,
for certain properties associated
with the project. This TIF agreement will be up to 30 years in
length. The City will declare certain
improvements with respect to the
project to be a public purpose and
exempt 100% of the improvements
from real property taxes. The project is subject to a15-year residential tax abatement. The TIF will be
on the commercial retail estate for
the first 15 years and will capture
the full value in the remaining 15
years.
Under
the
agreement,
parcels
acquired and re-conveyed to the
developer will be subject to a TIF
under Section 5709.41 of the Ohio
Revised Code in consideration for
the developer agreeing to make certain improvements to those parcels
and making payments in lieu of
taxes (PILOTs) equal to the taxes

The City Record
that would have been paid for those
parcels, but for the TIF. A portion
of the PILOT will be paid to the
Cleveland Municipal School District
in the amount the District would
have otherwise received, but for the
TIF. The balance of the PILOTs
will be utilized to fund eligible project costs and project debt.
Economic Impact
• Approx. 161 new apartments
• Creation of 40FTE jobs in the
City
of
Cleveland
(estimated
$1,354,520 annual salaries)
• 496 estimated construction jobs
• Project estimates $33,863 New
Jobs City Income Tax (annual)
• Project estimates $232,296 New
Resident City Income Tax (at stabilization in Year 1)
• Over the 30-year term of the
TIF, the project estimates $10.3 Million in property taxes generated for
the School District and $8 Million in
income residence taxes for the City
City Requirements
• Subject
to
Chapter
187:
MBE/FBE/CSB requirements
• Subject to Chapter 188: Fannie
Lewis
Cleveland
Residential
Employment Law
• Subject to a Workforce Development Agreement for all new jobs
• Subject to a Community Benefits Agreement
Section 3. That, under Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code, Redeveloper,
or
the
owners
of
the
Improvements, shall make service
payments for a period of thirty
years in lieu of the exempt taxes to
the Cuyahoga County Treasurer; the
payments shall be charged and collected in the same manner, and shall
be in an amount not less than the
taxes that would have been paid
had the Improvements not been
exempt from taxation.
Section 4. That a portion of the
service payments collected under
this ordinance shall be distributed
by the Cuyahoga County Treasurer
to the Treasurer of the District in
the amount of the taxes that would
have been payable to the District
had the Improvement not been
exempt from taxation.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement or
agreements with Redeveloper to provide for the exemption and service
payments described in this ordinance, including agreements securing the payments described in this
ordinance,
which
agreement
or
agreements
shall
contain
those
terms contained in this ordinance.
Section 6. That under Section
5709.43 of the Revised Code, there is
established
an
identified
Urban
Redevelopment
Tax
Increment
Equivalent Fund into which shall be
deposited service Payments in Lieu
of Taxes (“PILOTS”) which shall be
used for the purposes described in
this ordinance, or File, or for other
economic development purposes as
determined by the Director of Economic Development.
Section 7. That it is found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this ordinance
were adopted in open meetings of
this Council, and any of its committees that resulted in formal action
were in meetings open to the public
in compliance with the law.

450

March 28, 2018
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Ord. No. 257-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply for
and accept a grant from the Cuyahoga County Department of Public
Safety and Justice Services for the
FY 2017 Cleveland Domestic Violence Program; and to enter into one
or more contracts with Cuyahoga
County and other entities to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Law is authorized to apply for and
accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $122,634.42, and any other
funds that may become available
during the grant term, from the
Cuyahoga County Department of
Public Safety and Justice Services,
to conduct the FY 2017 Cleveland
Domestic Violence Program, for the
purposes set forth in the application
and according thereto; that the
Director of Law is authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the file for the
grant.
Section 2. That the subgrant application for the grant, File No. 257-18A, made a part of this ordinance as
if fully rewritten, including the
obligation of the City of Cleveland
to provide cash matching funds in
the sum of $40,878.14 from Fund No.
01-1001-6397, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation and shall not be changed
without
additional
legislative
authority. (RQS 1001, RL 2018-22)
Section 3. That the Director of
Law is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with the County
of Cuyahoga and one or more contracts with other entities to implement the program as described in
the file.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

March 28, 2018
Ord. No. 260-18.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance providing for the selection of a Charter
Review Commission pursuant to Section 200-1 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure to meet
the requirements of Section 200-1 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland
and provides for the usual daily
operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 200-1 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, this Council hereby
provides for the selection of a Charter Review Commission as follows:
Justin M. Bibb
Dona Brady
Frank Camardo
Phyllis Cleveland
Johnny E. Hamm
Kenneth L. Johnson
Brian Kazy
Martin J. Keane
Michelle A. Kenney
Barbara A. Langhenry
Kerry McCormack
Thomas S. McNair
Aaron Phillips
Jasmin Santana
Nicholas Vento
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Ord. No. 315-18.
By Council Members McCormack,
Zone, Cleveland, Polensek, Brady,
Brancatelli, and Kazy.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 2 of Ordinance No 740-17
passed June 5, 2017 as it pertains to
authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into
agreement with The LGBT Community Center of Greater Cleveland for
the Pride in the CLE Expo through
the use of Wards 3, 5, 8, 11, 12, 15
and 16 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 740-17 passed June 5, 2017
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $12,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 740-17 passed June 5, 2017
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

The City Record
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Ord. No. 317-18.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into agreement with the Concerned
Citizens Community Council or with
its designated fiscal agent Buckeye
Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Community Pro-Vision
Project through the use of Ward 4
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective January 1,
2018 with the Concerned Citizens
Community Council or with its designated fiscal agent Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation
for the Community Pro-Vision Project for the public purpose of providing social support referral services to low income residents residing in the city of Cleveland through
the use of Ward 4 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

Ord. No. 318-18.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 96417 passed August 16, 2017 as it pertains to Authorizing the Director of
the
Department
of
Community
Development to enter into agreement with the Refugee Response for
the
Refugee
Response
Program
through the use of Ward 3 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

451

33
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 964-17 passed August 16,
2017 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective January 1,
2017 with the Refugee Response for
the Refugee Response Program for
the public purpose of providing
workforce training and tutoring services to adult refugee community
residents residing in the city of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
3 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 964-17 passed August 16,
2017 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 19, 2018.
Effective March 21, 2018.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, March 26, 2018
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee:
Present:
Griffin,
Chair;
McCormack, Vice Chair; Conwell, B.
Jones, Hairston, Santana, Zone.
12 Noon
Committee of the Whole: Present:
Kelley, Chair; Bishop, Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Griffin, Hairston, B.
Jones, J. Jones, Kazy, McCormack,
Polensek,
Santana.
Authorized
Absence: Cleveland, Johnson, Keane,
Zone.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Griffin, Keane, McCormack.
Authorized
Absence:
Zone,
Vice
Chair; Cleveland.
Tuesday, March 27, 2018
9:30 a.m.
Development, Planning and Sustainability (Zoning) Committee: Present:
Brancatelli,
Chair;
Bishop,
Hairston,
Keane.
Authorized
Absence: Cleveland, Vice Chair; B.
Jones, McCormack.
Development, Planning and Sustainability (Zoning) Committee: Present:
Brancatelli,
Chair;
Bishop,
Hairston, B. Jones, Keane, McCormack. Authorized Absence: Cleveland, Vice Chair.
1:30 p.m.
Utilities
Committee:
Present:
Keane, Chair; Kazy, Vice Chair;
Bishop,
Hairston,
McCormack,
Polensek, Santana.
Wednesday, March 28, 2018
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee (Tour): Present:
Zone, Chair; Polensek, Vice Chair;
Griffin, Kazy, B. Jones, J. Jones,
Santana.

The City Record

34

March 28, 2018

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Aging to enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior Lawn Care & Snow Removal Program through the use
of Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 365-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

Agreements
Amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 964-17 passed August 16, 2017 as it pertains to Authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Refugee Response for the Refugee Response Program through the use of Ward 3
Casino Revenue Funds. (O 318-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending Section 2 of Ordinance No 740-17 passed June 5, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with The LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland for the Pride in the CLE Expo through the use of Wards 3, 5,
8, 11, 12, 15 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 315-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into a Partial Release of Easement
Agreement with University Circle Incorporated, or its designee, regarding certain
easement rights in property located near the southeast corner of Euclid Avenue and
vacated East 117th Street for purposes of redevelopment, and declaring that the easement
interests are not needed for the City’s public use. (O 1460-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with Case
Western Reserve University for the Data Days Cleveland Expo through the use of Ward
13 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 362-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more agreements with
Cleveland Housing Network to administer energy, water, and sewer conservation services
to low income home owners or rental property owners, for the Divisions of Water, Water
Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year, with a one year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities. (O 358-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Aging to enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior Lawn Care & Snow Removal Program through the use
of Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 365-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Concerned Citizens Community Council or with its designated fiscal
agent Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Community Pro Vision
Project through the use of Ward 4 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 317-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Economic Development to enter into an
agreement with The Halfmoon Bakery for the Halfmoon Bakery Project through the use
of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 363-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .447

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

Airports Division
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with Aero Mag 2000
CLE, LLC for the lease of space in the North Cargo Facility Building at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport for operation of an aircraft deicing support and vehicle
maintenance facility, for the Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with
three one year options to renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional
legislative authority. (O 18-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .448
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with Worldwide
Flight Services, Inc. for the lease of space in the South Cargo Facility Building at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for operation of an air cargo facility, for the
Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with three one year options to
renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional legislative authority. (O 19-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .448

Appropriations
To make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of all municipal
departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2018 until
December 31, 2018. (O 147-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Argus Avenue, 13817 (Ward 8) — Robert Gollin, owner — appeal resolved on 3/21/18
(Doc. A-17-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444

452

March 28, 2018

The City Record

Carroll Avenue, 3024 (Ward 3) — (Jack) & Maryann Ricchiuto, owners — appeal resolved on
3/21/18 (Doc. A-255-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carroll Avenue, 3024 (Ward 3) — Jack Ricchiuto, owner — appeal resolved on 3/21/18
(Doc. A-257-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th Street, 3559 (Ward 2) — Carlee Golphin, owner — appeal resolved on 3/21/18
(Doc. A-15-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 3565 (Ward 2) — Loretta Gordon, owner — appeal adopted on
3/21/18 (Doc. A-8-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 65th Street, 3098 (Ward 5) — Michelle M. Grida, owner — appeal adopted on 3/21/18
(Doc. A-3-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 80th Street, 2209 (Ward 6) — Leslie King II, owner — extension of time granted on
3/21/18 (Doc. A-167-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East Boulevard, 3546 (Ward 2) — Marline Simmons, owner — appeal adopted on 3/21/18
(Doc. A-2-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 925 (Ward 3) — HH Cleveland Huntington LP, owner — appeal resolved
on 3/21/18 (Doc. A-60-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flora Avenue, 10108 (Ward 9) — Grant & Helen Evans c/o Betty J. Evans, owner — appeal
adopted on 3/21/18 (Doc. A-9-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hancock Avenue, 3110 (Ward 3) — Zivka Pejanovic, owner — appeal resolved on 3/21/18
(Doc. A-10-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Avenue, 7922 (Ward 15) — Ricardo Dones, owner — appeal resolved on 3/21/18
(Doc. A-13-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McBride Avenue, 5007 (Ward 5) — Antwane Moore, owner — appeal resolved on 3/21/18
(Doc. A-19-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park Avenue, 7502 (Ward 12) — LaCardaire M. Thedford Jr., owner — appeal adopted
on 3/21/18 (Doc. A-6-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Princeton Avenue, 11703 (Ward 2) — Roosevelt Howell/Juannetta Lewis, owners —
appeal adopted on 3/21/18 (Doc. A-5-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 4059 (a.k.a. 4051-4115 St. Clair Avenue) (Ward 10) — Birnbaum Family
Limited Partnership, owner — appeal adopted on 3/21/18 (Doc. A-238-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thrush Avenue, 11012 (Ward 11) — John R. Mance, owner — appeal resolved on 3/21/18
(Doc. A-7-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 149th Street, 4460 (Ward 16) — Mabel Property, LLC, owner — appeal postponed
to 4/4/18 on 3/21/18 (Doc. A-14-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 17th Street, 2353 (Ward 3) — Jason Pecjak, owner — appeal resolved on 3/21/18
(Doc. A-18-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 28th Street, 1702 (Ward 3) — Kirt Montlack, Ltd., owner — appeal adopted on 3/21/18
(Doc. A-260-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 98th Street, 3333 (Ward 11) — Michael J. Kaczmarski, owner — appeal resolved
on 3/21/18 (Doc. A-1-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 98th Street, 3409 (Ward 11) — Caroleanne Danszczak, owner — appeal resolved
on 3/21/18 (Doc. A-11-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

35
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443

Board of Control — Airports Division
Maintenance, operation and management of City-owned common use facilities — first modify
Contract #PS2015*102 per BOC Res. 105-15 — approve subconsultants — Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 112-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Concrete Requirements Contract for City Wards Year 2017 — consent to assignment of
Contract #PIRC2017*02 per BOC Res. 399-17 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc.
(BOC Res. 113-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
First Energy Stadium 2018 General Improvements — per Ord. 805-16 to Western Waterproofing
Company Inc. dba Western Specialty Contractors (BOC Res. 114-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Bill printing and mailing — per Ord. 414-17 to SourceLink Ohio, LLC — Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 103-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
Electronic bill presentment and payment — per Ord. 414-17 to Kubra Data Transfer Ltd. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 104-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433

Board of Control — Community Development Department
West 106th Street (Ward 11) — PPNs 005-14-151/153 — RockNPop Resources, LLC
(BOC Res. 116-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435

Board of Control — Concession Agreement
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction
Ceremony at Public Hall on April 14, 2018 — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to Towne Park, LLC —
Depts. of Law, Public Works (BOC Res. 115-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435

453

The City Record

36

March 28, 2018

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
West 106th Street (Ward 11) — PPNs 005-14-151/153 — RockNPop Resources, LLC
(BOC Res. 116-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 11)
West 106th Street (Ward 11) — PPNs 005-14-151/153 — RockNPop Resources, LLC
(BOC Res. 116-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435

Board of Control — Law Department
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction
Ceremony at Public Hall on April 14, 2018 — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to Towne Park, LLC —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 115-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Maintenance, operation and management of City-owned common use facilities — first modify
Contract #PS2015*102 per BOC Res. 105-15 — approve subconsultants — Division of
Airports (BOC Res. 112-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Bill printing and mailing — per Ord. 414-17 to SourceLink Ohio, LLC — Divisions of Water,
Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 103-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
Electronic bill presentment and payment — per Ord. 414-17 to Kubra Data Transfer Ltd. —
Divisions of Water, Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 104-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
Maintenance, operation and management of City-owned common use facilities — first modify
Contract #PS2015*102 per BOC Res. 105-15 — approve subconsultants — Division of
Airports, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 112-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Concrete Requirements Contract for City Wards Year 2017 — consent to assignment of
Contract #PIRC2017*02 per BOC Res. 399-17 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. —
Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 113-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
First Energy Stadium 2018 General Improvements — per Ord. 805-16 to Western Waterproofing
Company Inc. dba Western Specialty Contractors — Office of Capital Projects
(BOC Res. 114-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435
WPC Pavement and Drainage Improvement Project: Phase I — per Ord. 1276-16 to Sona
Construction, LLC — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 105-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Bill printing and mailing — per Ord. 414-17 to SourceLink Ohio, LLC — Divisions of Water,
Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 103-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Core & Main LP — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 108-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Ferguson Enterprises Inc. dba
Ferguson Waterworks — Division of Water (BOC Res. 110-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Simplified Alternatives, Inc. —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 106-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Trumbull Industries, Inc. —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 107-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Winsupply of Cleveland —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 109-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electronic bill presentment and payment — per Ord. 414-17 to Kubra Data Transfer Ltd. —
Divisions of Water, Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 104-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement Restoration — per Ord. 703-16 — all bids rejected (BOC Res. 111-18). . . . . . . . . . . .
WPC Pavement and Drainage Improvement Project: Phase I — per Ord. 1276-16 to Sona
Construction, LLC — Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 105-18) . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction
Ceremony at Public Hall on April 14, 2018 — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to Towne Park, LLC —
Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 115-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Core & Main LP — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 108-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Ferguson Enterprises Inc. dba
Ferguson Waterworks — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 110-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434

454

March 28, 2018

The City Record

Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Simplified Alternatives, Inc. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 106-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Trumbull Industries, Inc. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 107-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Winsupply of Cleveland —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 109-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement Restoration — per Ord. 703-16 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 111-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

37
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434

Board of Control — Water Division
Bill printing and mailing — per Ord. 414-17 to SourceLink Ohio, LLC — Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 103-18). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Core & Main LP — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 108-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Ferguson Enterprises Inc. dba
Ferguson Waterworks — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 110-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Simplified Alternatives, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 106-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Trumbull Industries, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 107-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Winsupply of Cleveland — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 109-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electronic bill presentment and payment — per Ord. 414-17 to Kubra Data Transfer Ltd. —
Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 104-18) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
WPC Pavement and Drainage Improvement Project: Phase I — per Ord. 1276-16 to Sona
Construction, LLC — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 105-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433

Board of Control — Willard Park Garage
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction
Ceremony at Public Hall on April 14, 2018 — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to Towne Park, LLC —
Depts. of Law, Public Works (BOC Res. 115-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadway Avenue, 5437 (Ward 5) — 4Ever Social Club, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 3/26/18 (Cal. 17-324) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clifton Boulevard, 10011 (Ward 11) — F.W. Pinard Building Co., owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 3/26/18 (Cal. 18-48) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue, 8700 (Ward 14) — Mihai Dobre, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 3/26/18 (Cal. 18-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 3600 (Ward 7) — IUOE Local 18, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 3/26/18 (Cal. 18-51) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grovewood Avenue, 17305 (Ward 8) — Hive City LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 3/26/18 (Cal. 18-50) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lawndale Avenue, 14901 (Ward 1) — Judy Jolly-Cooper, owner — appeal heard on
3/26/18 (Cal. 18-60). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lenacrave Avenue, 12909 (Ward 2) — Cassandra James, owner — appeal heard on 3/26/18
(Cal. 18-56) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 3333 (Ward 3) — K & Z Mutual Realty, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 3/26/18 (Cal. 18-57) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Siam Avenue, 3508 (Ward 3) — Cleveland Bricks, owner — appeal heard on 3/26/18
(Cal. 18-54) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 102nd Street, 1539 (Ward 11) — JJK-GAAS LLC, owner — appeal heard on 3/26/18
(Cal. 18-55) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 50th Street, 1801 (Ward 3) — Ray and Suzanne Tonsing, owners — appeal heard
on 3/26/18 (Cal. 18-53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard, 1262 (Ward 11) — F.W. Pinard Building Co., owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 3/26/18 (Cal. 18-47) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Bucyrus Avenue, 4202-04 (Ward 13) — Igor Kaschinszki, owner — appeal to be heard
on 4/9/18 (Cal. 18-66) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jefferson Avenue, 430 (Ward 3) — JSAW3 Ltd., owner — appeal to be heard on 4/9/18
(Cal. 18-52) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ruple Avenue, 908 (Ward 15) — Beverly Greer, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/9/18
(Cal. 18-67) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th Street, 1349 (Ward 15) — Doug Gertz, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/9/18
(Cal. 18-68) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2249 (Ward 3) — Nehemiah Smith, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/9/18
(Cal. 18-59) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

455

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442

The City Record

38

March 28, 2018

Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Cleveland
To amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1242-17, passed October 16, 2017, relating to
applying for and accepting a Clean Ohio Fund Green space Conservation Program grant
from the Ohio Public works Commission for construction of the Morgana Bluff Nature
Preserve and Learning Center; and authorizing one or more contracts with the Boys &
Girls Clubs of Cleveland, or its designee, to implement the grant project. (O 354-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422

Bridges
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to apply for and accept a grant from the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security for the FY17 Port Security Grant Program; authorizing
the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of labor and materials needed to
provide security enhancements and upgrades to various lift bridges, including labor and
installation, if necessary. (O 184-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

Budget
To make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of all municipal
departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2018 until
December 31, 2018. (O 147-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

Capital Projects
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into a Partial Release of Easement
Agreement with University Circle Incorporated, or its designee, regarding certain
easement rights in property located near the southeast corner of Euclid Avenue and
vacated East 117th Street for purposes of redevelopment, and declaring that the easement
interests are not needed for the City’s public use. (O 1460-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .447
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2016-003 with Platform Cement, Inc. for improvements to the West Side Market
parking area project. (O 353-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422

Case Western Reserve University ( CWRU )
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with Case
Western Reserve University for the Data Days Cleveland Expo through the use of Ward
13 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 362-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

Casino Revenue Funds
Amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 964-17 passed August 16, 2017 as it pertains to Authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Refugee Response for the Refugee Response Program through the use of Ward 3
Casino Revenue Funds. (O 318-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending Section 2 of Ordinance No 740-17 passed June 5, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with The LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland for the Pride in the CLE Expo through the use of Wards 3, 5,
8, 11, 12, 15 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 315-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with Case
Western Reserve University for the Data Days Cleveland Expo through the use of Ward
13 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 362-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Aging to enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior Lawn Care & Snow Removal Program through the use
of Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 365-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Concerned Citizens Community Council or with its designated fiscal
agent Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Community Pro Vision
Project through the use of Ward 4 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 317-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Economic Development to enter into an
agreement with The Halfmoon Bakery for the Halfmoon Bakery Project through the use
of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 363-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

Central Business District
Changing the Height Districts for the Central Business District and lands along the East Bank
of the Flats as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2573). (O 78-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

Charter
Providing for the selection of a Charter Review Commission pursuant to Section 200-1 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland. (O 260-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

456

March 28, 2018

The City Record

39

Charter Review Commission
Providing for the selection of a Charter Review Commission pursuant to Section 200-1 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland. (O 260-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

City of Cleveland Bids
First Energy Stadium Property Insurance — Department of Public Works — Division of
Property Management — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due April 19, 2018 (advertised
3/28/2018 and 4/4/2018) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Powdered Activated Carbon — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per C.O.
Sec. 129.24 — bid due May 2, 2018 (advertised 3/28/2018 and 4/4/2018) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PVC and FRE Ductline Materials — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per Ord. 804-14 — bid due April 19, 2018 (advertised 3/28/2018 and 4/4/2018). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Foods Camp George Forbes (2018) — Department of Public Works — Division of
Recreation — per Ord. 1278-17 — bid due April 13, 2018 (advertised 3/21/2018 and 3/28/2018) .
Summer Foods Program (2018) — Department of Public Works — Division of Recreation —
per Ord. 1278-17 — bid due April 13, 2018 (advertised 3/21/2018 and 3/28/2018) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445

City Planning Commission
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into a Partial Release of Easement
Agreement with University Circle Incorporated, or its designee, regarding certain
easement rights in property located near the southeast corner of Euclid Avenue and
vacated East 117th Street for purposes of redevelopment, and declaring that the easement
interests are not needed for the City’s public use. (O 1460-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Height Districts for the Central Business District and lands along the East Bank
of the Flats as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2573). (O 78-18) . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Use, Area, and Height Districts of lands flanking Old River Road and City owned
property intended for Canal Basin Park consistent with recent zoning changes located on
the East and West Banks of the Flats as identified on the attached map (Map Change
No. 2580). (O 368-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Uses and Area Districts of parcels of land northwest of Chatham Avenue
between West 32nd Street and West 31st Street and adding zero foot and seven foot
mapped setbacks as shown on the attached map (Map Change No. 2579). (O 367-18) . . . . . . . .
From Tracy Anderson, Special Assistant to the Mayor, City of Cleveland. Mayor’s nominations
to the Cleveland Landmark Commission, Cleveland City Planning Commission, Cleveland
Cuyahoga County Port Authority, Cleveland Community Relations Board, Gateway
Economic Development Corporation, Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority,
Cleveland Housing Advisory Board. Received and referred to Council’s Mayor’s
Appointments Committee. (F 210-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .426

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .425

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

Cleveland Housing Network ( CHN )
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more agreements with
Cleveland Housing Network to administer energy, water, and sewer conservation services
to low income home owners or rental property owners, for the Divisions of Water, Water
Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year, with a one year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities. (O 358-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424

Cleveland Metropolitan School District ( CMSD )
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing
Agreement with Project 29 Partners LLC, or its designee, for the redevelopment of a
parking lot on Detroit Avenue between West 28th Street and West 29th Street; to provide
for payments to the Cleveland City School District; and to declare certain improvements
to real property to be a public purpose. (O 150-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .449

Cleveland Police Foundation
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to accept the donation of pre-packaged frozen
desserts, use of a freezer, and related items, from the Cleveland Police Foundation for the
“Let’s Chill Together” program for local youths and young adults, Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety; and to accept additional donations of pre-packaged frozen
desserts, related items, and/or ancillary equipment from other entities for City events.
(O 185-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

Cleveland Public Power ( CPP )
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more agreements with
Cleveland Housing Network to administer energy, water, and sewer conservation services
to low income home owners or rental property owners, for the Divisions of Water, Water
Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year, with a one year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities. (O 358-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424

457

The City Record

40

March 28, 2018

Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of labor and materials
necessary to test, inspect, maintain, repair, enhance or replace HVAC systems and
components, including boilers, ventilation and AC systems, environmental controls,
software, and components, including rentals and installation, if necessary, for the
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control, Cleveland Public Power, and Office of Radio
Communications, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two years. (O 361-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .425

Cleveland Restoration Society
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Fingerprint/Scientific
Examiners, FOP/OLCI; and to amend Section 28 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 322-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers, District Council 54, Local 439; and to amend Section17 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to compensation for various
classifications. (O 323-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

Commendation
Commendation Resolution for Donald Hughes (R 382-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
Commendation Resolution for Gregory Hampton (R 381-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

Community Development
Amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 964-17 passed August 16, 2017 as it pertains to Authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Refugee Response for the Refugee Response Program through the use of Ward 3
Casino Revenue Funds. (O 318-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending Section 2 of Ordinance No 740-17 passed June 5, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with The LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland for the Pride in the CLE Expo through the use of Wards 3, 5,
8, 11, 12, 15 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 315-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the PY2018 under the
Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2018 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program. (O 79-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with Case
Western Reserve University for the Data Days Cleveland Expo through the use of Ward
13 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 362-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Concerned Citizens Community Council or with its designated fiscal
agent Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Community Pro Vision
Project through the use of Ward 4 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 317-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1242-17, passed October 16, 2017, relating to
applying for and accepting a Clean Ohio Fund Green space Conservation Program grant
from the Ohio Public works Commission for construction of the Morgana Bluff Nature
Preserve and Learning Center; and authorizing one or more contracts with the Boys &
Girls Clubs of Cleveland, or its designee, to implement the grant project. (O 354-18) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .449

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422

Community Development Block Grant Program
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the PY2018 under the
Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2018 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program. (O 79-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .449

Community Relations Board
From Tracy Anderson, Special Assistant to the Mayor, City of Cleveland. Mayor’s nominations
to the Cleveland Landmark Commission, Cleveland City Planning Commission, Cleveland
Cuyahoga County Port Authority, Cleveland Community Relations Board, Gateway

458

March 28, 2018

The City Record

41

Economic Development Corporation, Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority,
Cleveland Housing Advisory Board. Received and referred to Council’s Mayor’s
Appointments Committee. (F 210-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

Condolences
Condolence Resolution for George Abram (R 383-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

Congratulations
Congratulations Resolution for Margaret Withers Turnbow - 100th Birthday (R 377-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
Congratulations Resolution for Reverend Paul Hobson Sadler, Sr. (R 376-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

Contracts
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2016-003 with Platform Cement, Inc. for improvements to the West Side Market
parking area project. (O 353-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment to Contract
No. CT 9501 PS 2017 063 with Project Management Consultants, LLC, or its designee, to
provide additional financial consulting services for the Neighborhood Transformation
Initiative, and to extend the term of the contract through May 31, 2018. (O 151-18) . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the second option to renew Contract No. RC
2016-91 with Advance Door Company to provide labor and materials necessary to maintain,
replace, or repair overhead doors, for the various divisions of City government. (O 319-18) . .
Authorizing the Director of Human Resources to exercise the second option to renew Contract
No. CT 0402 PS 2016-264 with The Centers for Families and Children to administer the
City’s employee assistance program. (O 324-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Law to apply for and accept a grant from the Cuyahoga County
Department of Public Safety and Justice Services for the FY 2017 Cleveland Domestic
Violence Program; and to enter into one or more contracts with Cuyahoga County and
other entities to implement the program. (O 257-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more requirement contracts
without competitive bidding with BissNuss Inc., the Northeast Ohio Regional
representative of various proprietary equipment and services, in order to maintain and
replace existing components of the chemical feed systems, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two years. (O 359-18) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide security services at various indoor and outdoor recreation facilities, including but
not limited to, recreation centers, outdoor pools, and various surrounding play areas, for
a period not to exceed one year. (O 205-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of labor and materials
necessary to test, inspect, maintain, repair, enhance or replace HVAC systems and
components, including boilers, ventilation and AC systems, environmental controls,
software, and components, including rentals and installation, if necessary, for the
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control, Cleveland Public Power, and Office of Radio
Communications, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two years. (O 361-18) . . .
To amend the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 605-15, passed December 4, 2017, relating to
employing one or more professional consultants to create and administer a permitting
and billing program for unnecessary police and fire alarms. (O 357-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .450

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .425

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .423

Cuyahoga County Department of Public Safety and Justice Services
Authorizing the Director of Law to apply for and accept a grant from the Cuyahoga County
Department of Public Safety and Justice Services for the FY 2017 Cleveland Domestic
Violence Program; and to enter into one or more contracts with Cuyahoga County and
other entities to implement the program. (O 257-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .450

Cuyahoga County Port Authority
From Tracy Anderson, Special Assistant to the Mayor, City of Cleveland. Mayor’s nominations
to the Cleveland Landmark Commission, Cleveland City Planning Commission, Cleveland
Cuyahoga County Port Authority, Cleveland Community Relations Board, Gateway
Economic Development Corporation, Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority,
Cleveland Housing Advisory Board. Received and referred to Council’s Mayor’s
Appointments Committee. (F 210-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

Easements
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into a Partial Release of Easement
Agreement with University Circle Incorporated, or its designee, regarding certain
easement rights in property located near the southeast corner of Euclid Avenue and
vacated East 117th Street for purposes of redevelopment, and declaring that the easement
interests are not needed for the City’s public use. (O 1460-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .447

459

The City Record

42

March 28, 2018

Economic Development Department
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire and re-convey properties
presently owned by Playhouse Square Foundation, or its designee, located at East 17th
Street and Euclid Avenue for the purpose of entering into the chain of title prior to the
adoption of tax increment financing legislation authorized under Section 5709.41 of the
Revised Code. (O 355-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a loan agreement with
Playhouse Square Foundation, or its designee, to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the development of a residential tower and parking
garage located at East 17th Street and Euclid Avenue, and other associated costs
necessary to redevelop the property. (O 356-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing
Agreement with Project 29 Partners LLC, or its designee, for the redevelopment of a
parking lot on Detroit Avenue between West 28th Street and West 29th Street; to provide
for payments to the Cleveland City School District; and to declare certain improvements
to real property to be a public purpose. (O 150-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment to Contract
No. CT 9501 PS 2017 063 with Project Management Consultants, LLC, or its designee, to
provide additional financial consulting services for the Neighborhood Transformation
Initiative, and to extend the term of the contract through May 31, 2018. (O 151-18) . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Economic Development to enter into an
agreement with The Halfmoon Bakery for the Halfmoon Bakery Project through the use
of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 363-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .423

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .449

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

Electric Aggregation Program
Authorizing the City of Cleveland to participate in the Northeast Ohio Public Energy Council
for electric aggregation services and power supply program to serve residential and
small commercial customers from the June 2018 through the May 2020 meter read cycle;
and approving NOPEC’s Plan of Operation and Governance for the City of Cleveland’s
electric aggregation and power supply program. (O 360-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424

Finance Department
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Fingerprint/Scientific
Examiners, FOP/OLCI; and to amend Section 28 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 322-18) . . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers, District Council 54, Local 439; and to amend Section
17 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to compensation for various
classifications. (O 323-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the second option to renew Contract No. RC
2016-91 with Advance Door Company to provide labor and materials necessary to maintain,
replace, or repair overhead doors, for the various divisions of City government. (O 319-18) .
Authorizing the Director of Human Resources to exercise the second option to renew Contract
No. CT 0402 PS 2016-264 with The Centers for Families and Children to administer the
City’s employee assistance program. (O 324-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 4, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 38, 39, and 43 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various
classifications. (O 321-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 16, 19, 20, 21, 46 and 48 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various
classifications. (O 320-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 605-15, passed December 4, 2017, relating to
employing one or more professional consultants to create and administer a permitting
and billing program for unnecessary police and fire alarms. (O 357-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of all municipal
departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2018 until
December 31, 2018. (O 147-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .423

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

Flats District
Changing the Height Districts for the Central Business District and lands along the East
Bank of the Flats as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2573). (O 78-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

Grants
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the PY2018 under the
Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2018 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program. (O 79-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .449
Authorizing the Director of Law to apply for and accept a grant from the Cuyahoga County
Department of Public Safety and Justice Services for the FY 2017 Cleveland Domestic
Violence Program; and to enter into one or more contracts with Cuyahoga County and
other entities to implement the program. (O 257-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .450

460

March 28, 2018

The City Record

43

Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to apply for and accept a grant from the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security for the FY17 Port Security Grant Program; authorizing
the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of labor and materials needed to
provide security enhancements and upgrades to various lift bridges, including labor and
installation, if necessary. (O 184-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430
To amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1242-17, passed October 16, 2017, relating to
applying for and accepting a Clean Ohio Fund Green space Conservation Program grant
from the Ohio Public works Commission for construction of the Morgana Bluff Nature
Preserve and Learning Center; and authorizing one or more contracts with the Boys &
Girls Clubs of Cleveland, or its designee, to implement the grant project. (O 354-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422

Homeland Security
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to apply for and accept a grant from the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security for the FY17 Port Security Grant Program; authorizing
the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of labor and materials needed to
provide security enhancements and upgrades to various lift bridges, including labor and
installation, if necessary. (O 184-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the PY2018 under the
Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2018 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program. (O 79-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .449

Housing Opportunities For Persons With Aids (HOPWA)
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the PY2018 under the
Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2018 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program. (O 79-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .449

Human Resources Department
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Fingerprint/Scientific
Examiners, FOP/OLCI; and to amend Section 28 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 322-18) . . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers, District Council 54, Local 439; and to amend Section
17 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to compensation for various
classifications. (O 323-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Human Resources to exercise the second option to renew Contract
No. CT 0402 PS 2016-264 with The Centers for Families and Children to administer the
City’s employee assistance program. (O 324-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 4, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 38, 39, and 43 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various
classifications. (O 321-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 16, 19, 20, 21, 46 and 48 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various
classifications. (O 320-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

Landmark Commission
From Tracy Anderson, Special Assistant to the Mayor, City of Cleveland. Mayor’s nominations
to the Cleveland Landmark Commission, Cleveland City Planning Commission, Cleveland
Cuyahoga County Port Authority, Cleveland Community Relations Board, Gateway
Economic Development Corporation, Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority,
Cleveland Housing Advisory Board. Received and referred to Council’s Mayor’s
Appointments Committee. (F 210-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

Lease Agreement
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with Aero Mag 2000
CLE, LLC for the lease of space in the North Cargo Facility Building at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport for operation of an aircraft deicing support and vehicle
maintenance facility, for the Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with
three one year options to renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional
legislative authority. (O 18-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .448
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with Worldwide
Flight Services, Inc. for the lease of space in the South Cargo Facility Building at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for operation of an air cargo facility, for the
Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with three one year options to
renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional legislative authority. (O 19-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .448

461

The City Record

44

March 28, 2018

Levies
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Liquor Permits
#14374151025. New License Application, D5. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, 11452
Euclid Ave. (Ward 6). (F 369-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#1972757. Transfer of Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3 D3A. Dale Victor Barber, 13332 - 34
Lorain Ave. (Ward-16). (F 373-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#2383774. New License Application, C2. E S Westside Deli, Inc., 9901- 03 Union Ave. (Ward 6).
(F 370-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#23837740005. New License Application, C1. E S Westside Deli, Inc., 9901- 03 Union Ave.
(Ward 6). (F 372-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#9555999. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6. West 6th Entertainment
Group LLC, 1290 West 6th St. (Ward 3). (F 371-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#9845603. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6. YLT Red Cleveland LLC,
415- 417 Prospect Ave. (Ward 3). (F 374-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to a New C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at 2288 East 55th Street, 1st floor unit. (R 335-18)
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 4071 Lee Road, Suite 210. (R 311-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 870 East 185th Street
and repealing Resolution No. 981-17 objecting to said renewal. (R 313-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 4488 State Road, 1st floor and
basement, and repealing Resolution No. 856-17 objecting to said renewal. (R 366-18) . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor 13601 Lorain Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 254-17 objecting to said permit. (R 314-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X, D6 and D8 Liquor Permit at
1015 East 185th Street and repealing Resolution No. 521-17 objecting to said permit.
(R 312-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .447

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Loan Agreement
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a loan agreement with
Playhouse Square Foundation, or its designee, to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the development of a residential tower and parking garage
located at East 17th Street and Euclid Avenue, and other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the property. (O 356-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .423

Mayor’s Appointment Committee
From Tracy Anderson, Special Assistant to the Mayor, City of Cleveland. Mayor’s nominations
to the Cleveland Landmark Commission, Cleveland City Planning Commission, Cleveland
Cuyahoga County Port Authority, Cleveland Community Relations Board, Gateway
Economic Development Corporation, Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority,
Cleveland Housing Advisory Board. Received and referred to Council’s Mayor’s
Appointments Committee. (F 210-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

Mayor’s Office
Urging Mayor Jackson’s Administration to require special police forces to undergo racial bias
and sensitivity training and forward incident reports to the Department of Public Safety.
(R 375-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .428

Northeast Ohio Public Energy Council
Authorizing the City of Cleveland to participate in the Northeast Ohio Public Energy Council
for electric aggregation services and power supply program to serve residential and
small commercial customers from the June 2018 through the May 2020 meter read cycle;
and approving NOPEC’s Plan of Operation and Governance for the City of Cleveland’s
electric aggregation and power supply program. (O 360-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424

Ohio Department of Public Safety
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to apply for and accept a grant from the Ohio
Department of Public Safety for the FY 2018 Impaired Driving Enforcement Program
(IDEP) Grant. (O 298-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

Ohio Public Works Commission
To amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1242-17, passed October 16, 2017, relating to
applying for and accepting a Clean Ohio Fund Green space Conservation Program grant
from the Ohio Public works Commission for construction of the Morgana Bluff Nature
Preserve and Learning Center; and authorizing one or more contracts with the Boys &
Girls Clubs of Cleveland, or its designee, to implement the grant project. (O 354-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422

462

March 28, 2018

The City Record

45

Playhouse Square
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire and re-convey properties
presently owned by Playhouse Square Foundation, or its designee, located at East 17th
Street and Euclid Avenue for the purpose of entering into the chain of title prior to the
adoption of tax increment financing legislation authorized under Section 5709.41 of the
Revised Code. (O 355-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a loan agreement with
Playhouse Square Foundation, or its designee, to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the development of a residential tower and parking garage
located at East 17th Street and Euclid Avenue, and other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the property. (O 356-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .423

Police Division
Urging Mayor Jackson’s Administration to require special police forces to undergo racial bias
and sensitivity training and forward incident reports to the Department of Public Safety.
(R 375-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .428

Professional Services
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide security services at various indoor and outdoor recreation facilities, including but
not limited to, recreation centers, outdoor pools, and various surrounding play areas, for
a period not to exceed one year. (O 205-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430
To amend the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 605-15, passed December 4, 2017, relating to
employing one or more professional consultants to create and administer a permitting
and billing program for unnecessary police and fire alarms. (O 357-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .423

Public Improvements
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2016-003 with Platform Cement, Inc. for improvements to the West Side Market
parking area project. (O 353-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422

Public Works
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide security services at various indoor and outdoor recreation facilities, including but
not limited to, recreation centers, outdoor pools, and various surrounding play areas, for
a period not to exceed one year. (O 205-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

Purchases and Supplies Division
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire and re -convey properties
presently owned by Playhouse Square Foundation, or its designee, located at East 17th
Street and Euclid Avenue for the purpose of entering into the chain of title prior to the
adoption of tax increment financing legislation authorized under Section 5709.41 of the
Revised Code. (O 355-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422

Recognition
Recognition Resolution for April Fair Housing Month 50th Anniversary (R 378-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
Recognition Resolution for North Coast Men’s Chorus (R 380-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
Recognition Resolution for Richard Cole (R 379-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

Regional Transit Authority
From Tracy Anderson, Special Assistant to the Mayor, City of Cleveland. Mayor’s nominations
to the Cleveland Landmark Commission, Cleveland City Planning Commission, Cleveland
Cuyahoga County Port Authority, Cleveland Community Relations Board, Gateway
Economic Development Corporation, Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority,
Cleveland Housing Advisory Board. Received and referred to Council’s Mayor’s
Appointments Committee. (F 210-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

Resolution of Support
Opposing proposed “right to work” Constitutional amendments and supporting fair labor
practices that support working families and Cleveland’s economy. (R 274-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .445
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446
Urging Mayor Jackson’s Administration to require special police forces to undergo racial bias
and sensitivity training and forward incident reports to the Department of Public Safety.
(R 375-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .428

463

The City Record

46

March 28, 2018

Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Opposing proposed “right to work” Constitutional amendments and supporting fair labor
practices that support working families and Cleveland’s economy. (R 274-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .445

Safety Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to accept the donation of pre-packaged frozen
desserts, use of a freezer, and related items, from the Cleveland Police Foundation for the
“Let’s Chill Together” program for local youths and young adults, Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety; and to accept additional donations of pre-packaged frozen
desserts, related items, and/or ancillary equipment from other entities for City events.
(O 185-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to apply for and accept a grant from the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security for the FY17 Port Security Grant Program; authorizing
the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of labor and materials needed to
provide security enhancements and upgrades to various lift bridges, including labor and
installation, if necessary. (O 184-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430
Urging Mayor Jackson’s Administration to require special police forces to undergo racial bias
and sensitivity training and forward incident reports to the Department of Public Safety.
(R 375-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .428

Salaries
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Fingerprint/Scientific
Examiners, FOP/OLCI; and to amend Section 28 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 322-18) . . . .
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers, District Council 54, Local 439; and to amend Section
17 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to compensation for various
classifications. (O 323-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 4, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 38, 39, and 43 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various
classifications. (O 321-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 16, 19, 20, 21, 46 and 48 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various
classifications. (O 320-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

Tax Increment Financing ( TIF )
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire and re-convey properties
presently owned by Playhouse Square Foundation, or its designee, located at East 17th
Street and Euclid Avenue for the purpose of entering into the chain of title prior to the
adoption of tax increment financing legislation authorized under Section 5709.41 of the
Revised Code. (O 355-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing
Agreement with Project 29 Partners LLC, or its designee, for the redevelopment of a
parking lot on Detroit Avenue between West 28th Street and West 29th Street; to provide
for payments to the Cleveland City School District; and to declare certain improvements
to real property to be a public purpose. (O 150-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .449

Utilities Department
Authorizing the City of Cleveland to participate in the Northeast Ohio Public Energy Council
for electric aggregation services and power supply program to serve residential and small
commercial customers from the June 2018 through the May 2020 meter read cycle; and
approving NOPEC’s Plan of Operation and Governance for the City of Cleveland’s electric
aggregation and power supply program. (O 360-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more agreements with
Cleveland Housing Network to administer energy, water, and sewer conservation services
to low income home owners or rental property owners, for the Divisions of Water, Water
Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year, with a one year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities. (O 358-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more requirement contracts
without competitive bidding with BissNuss Inc., the Northeast Ohio Regional
representative of various proprietary equipment and services, in order to maintain and
replace existing components of the chemical feed systems, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two years. (O 359-18) . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of labor and materials
necessary to test, inspect, maintain, repair, enhance or replace HVAC systems and
components, including boilers, ventilation and AC systems, environmental controls,
software, and components, including rentals and installation, if necessary, for the
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control, Cleveland Public Power, and Office of Radio
Communications, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two years. (O 361-18) . .

464

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .425

March 28, 2018

The City Record

47

Ward 01
Congratulations Resolution for Margaret Withers Turnbow - 100th Birthday (R 377-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 4071 Lee Road, Suite 210. (R 311-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 02
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 03
#9555999. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6. West 6th Entertainment
Group LLC, 1290 West 6th St. (Ward 3). (F 371-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#9845603. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6. YLT Red Cleveland LLC,
415- 417 Prospect Ave. (Ward 3). (F 374-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 964-17 passed August 16, 2017 as it pertains to Authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Refugee Response for the Refugee Response Program through the use of Ward 3
Casino Revenue Funds. (O 318-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending Section 2 of Ordinance No 740-17 passed June 5, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with The LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland for the Pride in the CLE Expo through the use of Wards 3, 5,
8, 11, 12, 15 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 315-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire and re-convey properties
presently owned by Playhouse Square Foundation, or its designee, located at East 17th
Street and Euclid Avenue for the purpose of entering into the chain of title prior to the
adoption of tax increment financing legislation authorized under Section 5709.41 of the
Revised Code. (O 355-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a loan agreement with
Playhouse Square Foundation, or its designee, to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the development of a residential tower and parking garage
located at East 17th Street and Euclid Avenue, and other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the property. (O 356-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing
Agreement with Project 29 Partners LLC, or its designee, for the redevelopment of a
parking lot on Detroit Avenue between West 28th Street and West 29th Street; to provide
for payments to the Cleveland City School District; and to declare certain improvements
to real property to be a public purpose. (O 150-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Economic Development to enter into an
agreement with The Halfmoon Bakery for the Halfmoon Bakery Project through the use
of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 363-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Height Districts for the Central Business District and lands along the East
Bank of the Flats as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2573). (O 78-18) . . . . .
Changing the Use, Area, and Height Districts of lands flanking Old River Road and City
owned property intended for Canal Basin Park consistent with recent zoning changes
located on the East and West Banks of the Flats as identified on the attached map
(Map Change No. 2580). (O 368-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Uses and Area Districts of parcels of land northwest of Chatham Avenue
between West 32nd Street and West 31st Street and adding zero foot and seven foot
mapped setbacks as shown on the attached map (Map Change No. 2579). (O 367-18) . . . . . . .
Commendation Resolution for Donald Hughes (R 382-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Commendation Resolution for Gregory Hampton (R 381-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for North Coast Men’s Chorus (R 380-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for Richard Cole (R 379-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .423

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .449

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .426

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.425
.421
.421
.421
.421

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 04
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

465

The City Record

48

March 28, 2018

Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into a Partial Release of Easement
Agreement with University Circle Incorporated, or its designee, regarding certain
easement rights in property located near the southeast corner of Euclid Avenue and
vacated East 117th Street for purposes of redevelopment, and declaring that the easement
interests are not needed for the City’s public use. (O 1460-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .447
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Concerned Citizens Community Council or with its designated fiscal
agent Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Community Pro Vision
Project through the use of Ward 4 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 317-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 05
Amending Section 2 of Ordinance No 740-17 passed June 5, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with The LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland for the Pride in the CLE Expo through the use of Wards 3, 5,
8, 11, 12, 15 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 315-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Height Districts for the Central Business District and lands along the East Bank
of the Flats as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2573). (O 78-18) . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to a New C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at 2288 East 55th Street, 1st floor unit. (R 335-18) . .
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .447
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 06
#14374151025. New License Application, D5. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, 11452
Euclid Ave. (Ward 6). (F 369-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#2383774. New License Application, C2. E S Westside Deli, Inc., 9901 03 Union Ave. (Ward 6).
(F 370-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#23837740005. New License Application, C1. E S Westside Deli, Inc., 9901 03 Union Ave.
(Ward 6). (F 372-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Condolence Resolution for George Abram (R 383-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 07
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
Changing the Height Districts for the Central Business District and lands along the East Bank
of the Flats as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2573). (O 78-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 08
Amending Section 2 of Ordinance No 740-17 passed June 5, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with The LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland for the Pride in the CLE Expo through the use of Wards 3, 5,
8, 11, 12, 15 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 315-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 870 East 185th Street
and repealing Resolution No. 981-17 objecting to said renewal. (R 313-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X, D6 and D8 Liquor Permit at
1015 East-185th Street and repealing Resolution No. 521-17 objecting to said permit.
(R 312-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

466

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .447

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

March 28, 2018

The City Record

49

Ward 09
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
Congratulations Resolution for Reverend Paul Hobson Sadler, Sr. (R 376-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 10
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 11
Amending Section 2 of Ordinance No 740-17 passed June 5, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with The LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland for the Pride in the CLE Expo through the use of Wards 3, 5,
8, 11, 12, 15 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 315-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Aging to enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior Lawn Care & Snow Removal Program through the use
of Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 365-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 12
Amending Section 2 of Ordinance No 740-17 passed June 5, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with The LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland for the Pride in the CLE Expo through the use of Wards 3, 5,
8, 11, 12, 15 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 315-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451
Recognition Resolution for April Fair Housing Month 50th Anniversary (R 378-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 13
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with Case
Western Reserve University for the Data Days Cleveland Expo through the use of Ward
13 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 362-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 4488 State Road, 1st floor and
basement, and repealing Resolution No. 856-17 objecting to said renewal. (R 366-18) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .430

Ward 14
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 15
Amending Section 2 of Ordinance No 740-17 passed June 5, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with The LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland for the Pride in the CLE Expo through the use of Wards 3, 5,
8, 11, 12, 15 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 315-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451

467

The City Record

50

March 28, 2018

Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Ward 16
#1972757. Transfer of Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3 D3A. Dale Victor Barber, 13332- 34
Lorain Ave. (Ward-16). (F 373-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amending Section 2 of Ordinance No 740-17 passed June 5, 2017 as it pertains to authorizing the
Director of Community Development to enter into agreement with The LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland for the Pride in the CLE Expo through the use of Wards 3, 5,
8, 11, 12, 15 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 315-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor 13601 Lorain Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 254-17 objecting to said permit. (R 314-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .421

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .451
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .447

Ward 17
Amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1371-17, passed November 13, 2017 as
amended by Ordinance No. 222-18, passed February 26, 2018 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into agreement with
the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program through the use of
Wards 2, 3, 4 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 364-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .429
Supporting the passage of the Health & Human Services levy renewal on Tuesday May 8, 2018.
(R 305-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .446

Water Division
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more agreements with
Cleveland Housing Network to administer energy, water, and sewer conservation services
to low income home owners or rental property owners, for the Divisions of Water, Water
Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year, with a one year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities. (O 358-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more requirement contracts
without competitive bidding with BissNuss Inc., the Northeast Ohio Regional
representative of various proprietary equipment and services, in order to maintain and
replace existing components of the chemical feed systems, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two years. (O 359-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of labor and materials
necessary to test, inspect, maintain, repair, enhance or replace HVAC systems and
components, including boilers, ventilation and AC systems, environmental controls,
software, and components, including rentals and installation, if necessary, for the
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control, Cleveland Public Power, and Office of Radio
Communications, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two years. (O 361-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .425

Water Pollution Control Division ( WPC Division )
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more agreements with
Cleveland Housing Network to administer energy, water, and sewer conservation services
to low income home owners or rental property owners, for the Divisions of Water, Water
Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year, with a one year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities. (O 358-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .424
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of labor and materials
necessary to test, inspect, maintain, repair, enhance or replace HVAC systems and
components, including boilers, ventilation and AC systems, environmental controls,
software, and components, including rentals and installation, if necessary, for the
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control, Cleveland Public Power, and Office of Radio
Communications, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two years. (O 361-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .425

West Side Market
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2016-003 with Platform Cement, Inc. for improvements to the West Side Market
parking area project. (O 353-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .422

468

March 28, 2018

The City Record

51

Zoning
Changing the Height Districts for the Central Business District and lands along the East Bank
of the Flats as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2573). (O 78-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .432
Changing the Use, Area, and Height Districts of lands flanking Old River Road and City
owned property intended for Canal Basin Park consistent with recent zoning changes
located on the East and West Banks of the Flats as identified on the attached map
(Map Change No. 2580). (O 368-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .426
Changing the Uses and Area Districts of parcels of land northwest of Chatham Avenue
between West 32nd Street and West 31st Street and adding zero foot and seven foot
mapped setbacks as shown on the attached map (Map Change No. 2579). (O 367-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .425

469

