The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Twenty-Fourth, Two Thousand and Nineteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

30

Board of Control

30

Civil Service

36

1 Joseph T. Jones

Board of Zoning Appeals

36

2 Kevin L. Bishop
3 Kerry McCormack

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
38

4 Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr.

Public Notice

40

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

40

6 Blaine A. Griffin

City of Cleveland Bids

40

7 Basheer S. Jones

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

41

Committee Meetings

62

Index

62

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Anthony T. Hairston
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Jasmin Santana
15 Matt Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones...................................................4691 East 177th Street
44128
Kevin L. Bishop...............................................11729 Miles Avenue, #5
44105
Kerry McCormack................................................1769 West 31st Place
44113
Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr. ........................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44115
Blaine A. Griffin.........................................1810 Larchmere Boulevard
44120
Basheer S. Jones...................................................1383 East 94th Street
44106
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Anthony T. Hairston .....................................................423 Arbor Road
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Jasmin Santana......................................................3535 Marvin Avenue
44109
Matt Zone ............................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Sharon Dumas, Interim Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications Government
& International Affairs
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Matt Gray, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Tracy Martin-Thompson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Prevention, Intervention
and Opportunity for Youth and Young Adults
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Carter Edman, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
OFFICE OF QUALITY CONTROL AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT – Sabra
T. Pierce-Scott, Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Ronda G. Curtis, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Kimberly Roy-Wilson,
Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Robert Kennedy, Director, Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport & Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur,
Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Kim Johnson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Merle Gordon, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – David Hearne, Interim Commissioner
Environment – Brian Kimball, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Persis Sosiak, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Interim Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – David Carroll, Interim Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield
Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Angelo Calvillo, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Tania Menesse, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Joy Anderson, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –James Greene, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ayonna Blue Donald, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole West, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – David Ebersole, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Mary McNamara, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Grady Stevenson, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Kevin L. Bishop, Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir
Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea,
Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa Ryan, Council Member Jasmin
Santana, Peter Whitt, Ted Wammes.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Rev. Gregory E. Jordan, President; Michael
Flickinger, Vice-President; Michael Spreng, Secretary; Members: Daniel J. Brennan,
India Pierce Lee.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Henry Bailey, Myrline Barnes, Kelley Britt, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Public Utilities Director Robert L. Davis; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; David
H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Council Member Kerry McCormack,
Diane Downing, August Fluker, Charles Slife.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – _____________, Chair; Genesis O. Brown, Daniel Conway,
Robert L. Render.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Julie Trott, Chair; Giancarlo
Calicchia, Vice Chair; Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Robert
Strickland, Donald Petit, Secretary, Council Member Basheer S. Jones, Matthew L.
Spronz; Michele Anderson, Stephen Harrison, Raymond Tarasuck, Jr.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Michelle D. Earley
14-C
Judge Pinkey S. Carr
15-C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
13-A
Judge Emanuella Groves
14-B
Judge Lauren C. Moore
15-A
Judge Michael L. Nelson, Sr.
12-A
Judge Ann Clare Oakar
14-A
Judge Ronald J.H. O’Leary (Housing Court Judge)
13-B
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13-D
Judge Suzan M. Sweeney
12-C
Judge Jazmin Torres-Lugo
13-C
Judge Shiela Turner McCall
12-B
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14-D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Timothy
Lubbe – Housing Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda – Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief
Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

Vol. 106

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2019

No. 5498

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2018-2021
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Griffin
(CHAIR),
McCormack
(VICECHAIR), Conwell, B. Jones, Hairston, Santana, Zone.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR),
Bishop,
Brancatelli,
Hairston, J. Jones, Kazy.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley
(CHAIR),
Zone
(VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell,
Griffin,
Keane,
McCormack.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, B.
Jones, Keane, McCormack.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Kazy
(VICECHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, McCormack, Polensek, Santana.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Bishop
(CHAIR), Cleveland (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Griffin, B. Jones, J. Jones,
Kazy.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone (CHAIR), Polensek (VICECHAIR), Griffin, Kazy, B. Jones, J.
Jones, Santana.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor’s Appointments Committee:
Kazy (CHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Kelley.
Operations Committee: McCormack
(CHAIR), Griffin, Keane, Kelley,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Polensek.

Kelley
Hairston,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
April 22, 2019
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:01 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.

File No. 518-2019.
Dedication Plat for Bridge Court
Townhomes Subdivision, West 54th
Street between Franklin Boulevard
and Bridge Court. Approved by Committees on Municipal Services and
Properties, and Development Planning and Sustainability. Without
objection, Plat approved.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 522-2019.
RE: #14374151165. New License
Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican
Grill of Colorado LLC, 224 Euclid
Ave. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 523-2019.
RE: #14374151175. New License
Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican
Grill of Colorado LLC, 11452 Euclid
Ave. (Ward 6). Received.

Council Members present: Kevin
L. Bishop, Dona Brady, Anthony
Brancatelli, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Blaine A. Griffin,
Anthony T. Hairston, Kenneth L.
Johnson, Basheer S. Jones, Joseph T.
Jones, Brian Kazy, Kevin J. Kelley,
Martin J. Keane, Kerry McCormack,
and Michael D. Polensek.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G.
Jackson,
Interim
Chief
of
Staff/Director Sharon Dumas, Chief
Operating Officer Darnell Brown,
Chief of Communications, Government & International Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Regional
Development Edward W. Rybka,
Chief of Education Monyka S. Price,
Chief of Sustainability Matt Gray,
Chief
of
Public
Affairs
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
and
Directors
Langhenry, Davis, Kennedy, Spronz,
Gordon,
McGrath,
Cox,
Menesse,
Blue Donald, West, Ebersole, McNamara, Spreng, Burrows and Pierce
Scott.

Res. No. 526-2019 — Samuel Lee
Hunter.
Res.
No.
527-2019
—
Randy
Williams.

MOTION

CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS

Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Keane, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Griffin.
PLATS

10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Keane
(VICE-CHAIR),
Bishop,
Conwell,
Johnson, J. Jones, Santana.

and Gehring Avenue. Approved by
Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, and Development
Planning and Sustainability. Without objection, Plat approved.

File No. 517-2019.
Dedication Plat for Abbey Avenue
and Gehring Avenue, Lorain Avenue

569

File No. 524-2019.
RE: #26312750340. New License
Application,
C2.
Family
Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., 8003 Broadway
Ave. (Ward 12). Received.
File No. 525-2019.
RE: #14374151170. New License
Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican
Grill of Colorado LLC, 16729 Lorain
Ave. (Ward 17). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:

Res. No. 528-2019 — Reverend Dr.
Joshua Antoine Harris.
Res. No. 529-2019 — Elizabeth Baptist Church.
Res. No. 530-2019 — William Maynard – 93rd Birthday.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 531-2019 — Nia J. Imani.

The City Record

4
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 508-2019.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$12,000,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
parks and recreation facilities and
authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $12,000,000
(the “Bonds”) to finance the costs of
certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of
the improvements to be financed
with the proceeds of the Bonds is at
least five years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 25
years, as evidenced by the certificate contained in File No. 508-2019A; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance
No. 944-96, passed June 10, 1996
(Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and as the same may further be
amended from time to time in accordance with its provisions, is referred
to as the “General Bond Ordinance”),
providing the general terms and provisions for the issuance of unvoted
general obligations of the City, with
the specific terms of each series of
Bonds to be contained in ordinances
authorizing the issuance of bonds in
accordance
with
the
provisions
thereof (the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary
to provide funds to pay the costs of
certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 hereof that
are urgently needed for the benefit
of the City, and as a result, this
Ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety, and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $12,000,000 for the purpose of
providing funds to improve municipal parks and recreation facilities
by
constructing,
reconstructing,
installing,
renovating,
enlarging,
redeveloping and otherwise improving parks and recreation centers
and areas, pools, golf courses, bicycle paths, playgrounds, playfields,
tracks, fields, basketball and tennis
courts and related buildings, structures, walkways, safety surfaces,
pavement,
landscaping,
irrigation
systems and facilities, and providing
necessary
water
systems,
drainage, lighting, signage, fixtures,
furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site improvements,
together with all necessary and incidental appurtenances and the acquisition of any required real estate

and interests in real estate and the
demolition of any existing buildings, structures, walkways, safety
surfaces, and facilities, and to pay
any capitalized interest and all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the securities,
including all financing costs within
the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of
the Ohio Revised Code and such
other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be
financed with the proceeds of securities
as
permitted
by
Section
133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised Code
and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133
of the Ohio Revised Code and other
applicable provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, the General Bond Ordinance
and this Ordinance for the purpose
stated in Section 1 hereof. The
Bonds shall be designated “Parks
and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds” and may contain such
further designation as provided in
the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Bonds and
the sale of the Bonds signed by the
Director of Finance in accordance
with this Ordinance (the “Certificate
of Award”). The Bonds shall be
issued in one lot as fully registered
Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof. The
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the
Certificate of Award, which shall
not exceed the amount stated in Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be
dated their date of issuance and
shall bear interest from their date
until the principal amount is paid at
the rate or rates per year specified
in the Certificate of Award, provided that the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed 6.00% per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable when due, or until the principal amount is paid, semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 of each
year that the Bonds are outstanding,
commencing December 1, 2019 (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), unless
otherwise determined by the Director of Finance in the Certificate of
Award.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as
shall be permitted by law and determined by the Director of Finance
and specified in the Certificate of
Award, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor (as defined in
Section 16) to be in the best interests of the City, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date, (ii)
the first principal payment on the
Bonds shall be no later than August
1, 2021, (iii) the final maturity date
of the Bonds shall be no later than
25 years from that date which is 12
months prior to the first date on
which provision for payment of principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount thereof shall be payable in
annual installments such that the
total principal and interest payments on the Bonds in any fiscal
year in which principal is payable
is not more than three times the

570

April 24, 2019
amount of those payments in any
other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of
100%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against
the
then-current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) of the City for any Term
Bonds. That option shall be exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date,
by furnishing the Escrow Agent a
certificate, signed by the Registrar,
setting forth the extent of the credit to be applied with respect to the
then-current
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement. If
the certificate is not timely furnished to the Escrow Agent, the
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) shall not be reduced. A
credit
against
the
then-current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled by the Registrar, to the
extent not applied theretofore as a
credit
against
any
mandatory
redemption obligation.

April 24, 2019
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100% of the
principal amount thereof against the
then-current
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then-current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least 45 days prior to the
redemption date or such shorter
period as shall be acceptable to the
Registrar. There shall be deposited
with the Registrar on or prior to the
redemption date funds sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price all
of the redeemable Bonds for which
notice of redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less

The City Record
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds to
be purchased in lieu of redemption
shall be equal to the principal of,
any accrued but unpaid interest on,
and any premium that would have
been payable on the Bonds on the
redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the
purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners
of the Bonds in addition to the
notice of redemption required by
this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent
or Registrar, as paying agent, shall
not purchase Bonds if sufficient
moneys have not been deposited
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, by the City for the
purpose. On or prior to the scheduled date for optional redemption,
the City may rescind its direction to
purchase the Bonds in lieu of
redemption by written notice from
the Director of Finance to the Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In the
event that the direction to purchase
is rescinded, the Bonds shall be
redeemed on the redemption date set
forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding
Bonds
are
called
for
redemption at one time (whether for
redemption or purchase in lieu of
redemption), they shall be called in
the order of maturities directed by
the Director of Finance. If fewer
than all Bonds of a single maturity
are to be redeemed or purchased in
lieu of redemption, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed or purchased,
or portions thereof in amounts of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the Registrar
by lot in a manner determined by
the Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption
or
purchase
of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of
the denomination of $5,000. If it is
determined that one or more, but not
all of the $5,000 units of principal
amount represented by a Bond are
to be called for redemption, then
upon notice of redemption of a
$5,000 unit or units, the registered
owner of that Bond shall surrender
the Bond to the Registrar (i) for
payment of the redemption or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption and any premium), and
(ii) for issuance, without charge to
the registered owner thereof, of a
new Bond or Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal
amount equal to the unmatured portion of the Bond not redeemed or
purchased and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date as the Bond surrendered.

571

5
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or
portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption
notice
by
first-class
mail, postage prepaid, at least 30
days prior to the date fixed for
redemption (or such period specified
in the Certificate of Award), to the
registered owner of each Bond subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any provider of a Credit Support Instrument (as defined in Section 15 hereof) for the Bonds or
designated portions thereof. Failure
to receive notice by mail or any
defect in that notice regarding any
Bond, however, shall not affect the
validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may
specify that the redemption is contingent on the deposit of moneys
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, on or prior to the
redemption date in an amount sufficient to pay the redemption price
of the Bonds to be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, in an amount sufficient
to pay the redemption price, the
Bonds and portions thereof called
for redemption shall become due
and payable on the redemption date,
and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or places specified
in that notice, shall be paid. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, including interest accrued
to the redemption date, is held by
the Registrar on the redemption
date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on
the redemption date, or that notice
shall not have been deposited in the
mail, those Bonds and portions
thereof shall continue to bear interest, until they are paid, at the same
rate as they would have borne had
they not been called for redemption.
All money held by the Registrar for
the redemption of particular Bonds
shall be held in trust for the account
of the registered owners and shall
be paid to them, respectively, upon
presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the

6
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3 hereof) at the close of business on
the date provided in the Registrar
Agreement authorized and defined
in Section 3 hereof (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book-entry
system (as described in Section 3
hereof), debt charges on the Bonds
will be payable in lawful money of
the United States by wire transfer
to the Depository made by the
Escrow Agent on each Interest Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance, and,
consistent with Section 133.27 of the
Ohio Revised Code and notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either
or both of those signatures may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon the
Director of Law’s approval of the
form thereof by the Director of
Law’s manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds
(the
“Registrar”).
The
Escrow Agent shall also act as paying agent for the Bonds so long as
the Bonds are held in a book-entry
system. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
an agreement among the City, Registrar and Escrow Agent (the “Registrar Agreement”), approved as to
form by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the

The City Record
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City and consistent
with this Ordinance and not substantially adverse to the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Registrar Agreement
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City

572

April 24, 2019
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book-entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book-entry form” or “book-entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book-entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds,
in
book-entry
form,
and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book-entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book-entry
system and, if and as long as a
book-entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book-entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book-entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a bookentry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book-entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of

April 24, 2019
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized to the extent necessary or required to enter into any
agreements determined necessary in
connection with the book-entry system for the Bonds, after determining that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of
the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite or purchase the Bonds
and have been selected by the Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original
Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and
the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Bonds, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, the
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount of the Bonds plus any
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds
and
any
other
matters
required in this Ordinance to be set
forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor,
Director of Finance, Director of
Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments

The City Record
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a bond purchase agreement
between the City and the Original
Purchaser
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Bonds
and the Original Purchaser agrees
to buy the Bonds, which shall be
consistent with this Ordinance, not
substantially adverse to the City,
and approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of
the Ohio Revised Code, the Director
of Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2019”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds
are
outstanding,
in
an
amount sufficient to provide for the
payment of that interest, when and
as the same shall fall due, and also
to discharge the principal of the
Bonds at maturity, which tax shall
not be less than the interest and
sinking fund tax required by Section
11 of Article XII of the Constitution
of Ohio.
The tax shall be within the tenmill limitation imposed by law, shall
be and is ordered computed, certified, levied and extended upon the
tax duplicate and collected by the
same officers, in the same manner
and at the same time that taxes for
general purposes for each of those
years are certified, extended and
collected, and shall be placed before
and in preference to all other items
and for the full amount thereof. The
funds derived from those tax levies
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account of
the Sinking Fund as required by the
General Bond Ordinance, and those
funds, together with the interest collected on them, shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds

573

7
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment
of
the
Bonds
and
are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such tax shall be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that
the City will appropriate annually
from the proceeds of the City’s
municipal income taxes an amount
as is necessary to meet the annual
debt charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. The proceeds of the
Bonds to be applied to pay costs of
any
Credit
Support
Instruments
obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be paid to the provider or
providers of those Credit Support
Instruments. The proceeds from the
sale of the Bonds to be used to pay
costs of issuing the Bonds shall be
deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar Agreement pending their application to the payment of such costs.
Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance,
and notwithstanding Chapter 179 of
the
Codified
Ordinances,
any
accrued interest and any premium
received from the sale of the Bonds
shall be deposited in the Unvoted
Tax Supported Obligations Account
of the Sinking Fund to be applied
to the payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit
and general property taxing power
(as described in Section 5) of the
City are hereby pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds in accordance with
the laws and Constitution of the
State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the
General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further

8
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or subaccounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal
amount
not
to
exceed

The City Record
$12,000,000 (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance
to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding 5.00% per year, as may be
fixed by the Director of Finance of
the City in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be dated their date of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five
years
from
such
date
of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of a financial
advisor, determines that it is in the
best interest of the City in order to
enhance the marketability of the
Notes, the Director of Finance may
cause
the
Notes
to
not
be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated
“Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes”; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form
(which may be in a book-entry only
system) in denominations of $5,000
or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semiannually
on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that
if the Notes mature on or before the
end of the twelfth month following
their date of issuance, interest on
the Notes shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note
Registrar”).
The
Escrow
Agent also shall act as paying
agent for the Notes if the Notes are
held in a book-entry system. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an agreement among the
City, the Note Registrar and the
Escrow Agent (the “Note Registrar
Agreement”) providing for services
relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange and payment of Notes on
terms that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded

574

April 24, 2019
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of
the Ohio Revised Code, the Director
of Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City for purposes of their sale
as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bond Anticipation Notes.” The Notes
shall contain a summary statement
of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the Notes are issued
and shall state that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance.
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which
they are issued and that they are
issued pursuant to this Ordinance.

April 24, 2019
Each Note shall be authenticated by
the manual signature of an authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Notes shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance, and,
consistent with Section 133.27 of the
Ohio Revised Code and notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either
or both of those signatures may be
a facsimile. The Notes shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes
and shall endorse thereon the Director of Law’s approval of the form
thereof by the Director of Law’s
manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund
and, if not purchased by them, shall
be offered to the Treasury Investment Account for purchase and, if
not purchased for that Account,
shall be sold to one or more firms
that have proposed to underwrite or
purchase the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the
pledges and liens authorized by the
General Bond Ordinance and, in
addition to the taxes and revenues
specifically pledged pursuant to this
Ordinance and the General Bond
Ordinance and the other covenants,
terms
and
agreements
provided
hereunder and in the General Bond
Ordinance to secure payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Notes, the City hereby determines,
declares, warrants and covenants
that the Notes are general obligations of the City and that the full
faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this
Ordinance and the General Bond
Ordinance. The par value to be
received from the sale of the Bonds
or of any renewal notes and any
excess funds resulting from the
issuance of the Notes shall, to the
extent necessary, be used to pay the
debt charges on the Notes at maturity and are pledged for that purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,

The City Record
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general purposes for each year are certified, extended and collected. That
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies required
by this Ordinance shall be placed in
the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those funds,
together with the interest collected
on
them,
shall
be
irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity
each Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”).
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and to sign
and deliver, in the name and on

575

9
behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate,
which shall constitute the continuing disclosure agreement made by
the City for the benefit of the holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing
disclosure
agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant
to Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section
14.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds or arbitrage
bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (the “Code”) or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds the
interest on which is excluded from
gross income under Section 103 of
the Code, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of
the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield
on
investment
property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,

10
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or status of the
Notes and the Bonds or interest
thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with requirements for that purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate amount or payments or penalties, or making payments of special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes and the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Notes and the Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement
or other credit enhancement instrument as further security for the payment when due of the principal of
and interest on all or any portion of
the Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director
of Finance may request a rating on
the Bonds or Notes from one or more
nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things
and
take
any
and
all
actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings on the Bonds or Notes. The
Director of Finance may enter into
one or more agreements for Credit
Support
Instruments
containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance. The expenditure of the amounts necessary to
secure Credit Support Instruments
or obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts

The City Record
from the proceeds of the Bonds or
Notes to the extent available and
otherwise from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchasers
and any other party interested in
the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and any of its committees that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance
is authorized to forward a certified
copy of this Ordinance and of the
Certificate of Award for the Bonds
and any Note Certificate of Award
to the County Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County and to secure a
receipt therefor.
Section 20. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than

576

April 24, 2019
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations,
trust
indentures,
trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 509-2019.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$18,000,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve buildings
and structures housing and providing for the discharge of governmental
functions
and
services
otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and welfare and for the
provision of necessary fixtures, furnishings,
equipment,
technology,
appurtenances, utilities, and site
improvements for the purpose and
authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $18,000,000
(the “Bonds”) to finance the costs of
certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of
the improvements to be financed
with the proceeds of the Bonds is at
least five years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 18
years, as evidenced by the certificate contained in File No. 509-2019A; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,

April 24, 2019
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance
No. 944-96, passed June 10, 1996
(Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and as the same may further be
amended from time to time in accordance with its provisions, is referred
to as the “General Bond Ordinance”),
providing the general terms and provisions for the issuance of unvoted
general obligations of the City, with
the specific terms of each series of
Bonds to be contained in ordinances
authorizing the issuance of bonds in
accordance
with
the
provisions
thereof (the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary
to provide funds to pay the costs of
certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 hereof that
are urgently needed for the benefit
of the City, and as a result, this
Ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety, and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $18,000,000 for the purpose of
providing funds for constructing,
reconstructing, installing, renovating,
enlarging
and
otherwise
improving buildings and structures
housing and providing for the discharge of governmental functions
and services otherwise benefiting
the public safety, health and welfare, including facilities in, of and
for City Hall, fire stations, police
stations and stables, service stations, centers and facilities, waste
collection, the West Side Market,
Music Hall, transfer and disposal
facilities,
parking
facilities
and
other facilities, to provide for certain architectural, engineering and
other professional services related
to such facilities, to improve technology used in providing City services, including telecommunications
equipment and computer hardware
and software, and for the provision
of necessary fixtures, furnishings,
equipment,
technology,
appurtenances, utilities, sprinkler systems,
landscaping and site improvements
for the purpose, and to pay any capitalized interest and all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the securities, including
all financing costs within the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the Ohio
Revised Code and such other costs
of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with
the proceeds of securities as permitted by Section 133.15(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code and as otherwise
permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133
of the Ohio Revised Code and other
applicable provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, the General Bond Ordinance
and this Ordinance for the purpose
stated in Section 1 hereof. The
Bonds shall be designated “Public
Facilities Improvement Bonds” and
may contain such further designation as provided in the certificate of

The City Record
award providing for the final terms
of the Bonds and the sale of the
Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this
Ordinance
(the
“Certificate
of
Award”). The Bonds shall be issued
in one lot as fully registered Bonds
in denominations of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the
Certificate of Award, which shall
not exceed the amount stated in Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be
dated their date of issuance and
shall bear interest from their date
until the principal amount is paid at
the rate or rates per year specified
in the Certificate of Award, provided that the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed 6.00% per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable when due, or until the principal amount is paid, semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 of each
year that the Bonds are outstanding,
commencing December 1, 2019 (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), unless
otherwise determined by the Director of Finance in the Certificate of
Award.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as
shall be permitted by law and determined by the Director of Finance
and specified in the Certificate of
Award, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor (as defined in
Section 16) to be in the best interests of the City, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date, (ii)
the first principal payment on the
Bonds shall be no later than August
1, 2021, (iii) the final maturity date
of the Bonds shall be no later than
18 years from that date which is 12
months prior to the first date on
which provision for payment of principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount thereof shall be payable in
annual installments such that the
total principal and interest payments on the Bonds in any fiscal
year in which principal is payable
is not more than three times the
amount of those payments in any
other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be

577

11
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of
100%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against
the
then-current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) of the City for any Term
Bonds. That option shall be exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date,
by furnishing the Escrow Agent a
certificate, signed by the Registrar,
setting forth the extent of the credit to be applied with respect to the
then-current
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement. If
the certificate is not timely furnished to the Escrow Agent, the
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) shall not be reduced. A
credit
against
the
then-current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled by the Registrar, to the
extent not applied theretofore as a
credit
against
any
mandatory
redemption obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100% of the
principal amount thereof against the
then-current
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then-current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption

12
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least 45 days prior to the
redemption date or such shorter
period as shall be acceptable to the
Registrar. There shall be deposited
with the Registrar on or prior to the
redemption date funds sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price all
of the redeemable Bonds for which
notice of redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds to
be purchased in lieu of redemption
shall be equal to the principal of,
any accrued but unpaid interest on,
and any premium that would have
been payable on the Bonds on the
redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the
purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners
of the Bonds in addition to the
notice of redemption required by
this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent
or Registrar, as paying agent, shall
not purchase Bonds if sufficient
moneys have not been deposited
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, by the City for the
purpose. On or prior to the scheduled date for optional redemption,

The City Record
the City may rescind its direction to
purchase the Bonds in lieu of
redemption by written notice from
the Director of Finance to the Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In the
event that the direction to purchase
is rescinded, the Bonds shall be
redeemed on the redemption date set
forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding
Bonds
are
called
for
redemption at one time (whether for
redemption or purchase in lieu of
redemption), they shall be called in
the order of maturities directed by
the Director of Finance. If fewer
than all Bonds of a single maturity
are to be redeemed or purchased in
lieu of redemption, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed or purchased,
or portions thereof in amounts of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the Registrar
by lot in a manner determined by
the Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption
or
purchase
of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of
the denomination of $5,000. If it is
determined that one or more, but not
all of the $5,000 units of principal
amount represented by a Bond are
to be called for redemption, then
upon notice of redemption of a
$5,000 unit or units, the registered
owner of that Bond shall surrender
the Bond to the Registrar (i) for
payment of the redemption or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption and any premium), and
(ii) for issuance, without charge to
the registered owner thereof, of a
new Bond or Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal
amount equal to the unmatured portion of the Bond not redeemed or
purchased and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or
portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption
notice
by
first-class
mail, postage prepaid, at least 30
days prior to the date fixed for
redemption (or such period specified
in the Certificate of Award), to the
registered owner of each Bond subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any provider of a Credit Support Instrument (as defined in Section 15 hereof) for the Bonds or
designated portions thereof. Failure
to receive notice by mail or any
defect in that notice regarding any

578

April 24, 2019
Bond, however, shall not affect the
validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may
specify that the redemption is contingent on the deposit of moneys
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, on or prior to the
redemption date in an amount sufficient to pay the redemption price
of the Bonds to be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, in an amount sufficient
to pay the redemption price, the
Bonds and portions thereof called
for redemption shall become due
and payable on the redemption date,
and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or places specified
in that notice, shall be paid. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, including interest accrued
to the redemption date, is held by
the Registrar on the redemption
date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on
the redemption date, or that notice
shall not have been deposited in the
mail, those Bonds and portions
thereof shall continue to bear interest, until they are paid, at the same
rate as they would have borne had
they not been called for redemption.
All money held by the Registrar for
the redemption of particular Bonds
shall be held in trust for the account
of the registered owners and shall
be paid to them, respectively, upon
presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3 hereof) at the close of business on
the date provided in the Registrar
Agreement authorized and defined
in Section 3 hereof (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book-entry
system (as described in Section 3
hereof), debt charges on the Bonds
will be payable in lawful money of
the United States by wire transfer
to the Depository made by the
Escrow Agent on each Interest Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section

April 24, 2019
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance, and,
consistent with Section 133.27 of the
Ohio Revised Code and notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either
or both of those signatures may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon the
Director of Law’s approval of the
form thereof by the Director of
Law’s manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds
(the
“Registrar”).
The
Escrow Agent shall also act as paying agent for the Bonds so long as
the Bonds are held in a book-entry
system. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
an agreement among the City, Registrar and Escrow Agent (the “Registrar Agreement”), approved as to
form by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City and consistent
with this Ordinance and not substantially adverse to the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Registrar Agreement
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all

The City Record
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book-entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book-entry form” or “book-entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the

579

13
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book-entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds,
in
book-entry
form,
and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book-entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book-entry
system and, if and as long as a
book-entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book-entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book-entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a bookentry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book-entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized to the extent necessary or required to enter into any
agreements determined necessary in
connection with the book-entry system for the Bonds, after determining that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of
the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,

14
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite or purchase the Bonds
and have been selected by the Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original
Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and
the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Bonds, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, the
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount of the Bonds plus any
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds
and
any
other
matters
required in this Ordinance to be set
forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor,
Director of Finance, Director of
Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a bond purchase agreement
between the City and the Original
Purchaser
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Bonds
and the Original Purchaser agrees
to buy the Bonds, which shall be
consistent with this Ordinance, not
substantially adverse to the City,
and approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.

The City Record
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of
the Ohio Revised Code, the Director
of Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2019”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds
are
outstanding,
in
an
amount sufficient to provide for the
payment of that interest, when and
as the same shall fall due, and also
to discharge the principal of the
Bonds at maturity, which tax shall
not be less than the interest and
sinking fund tax required by Section
11 of Article XII of the Constitution
of Ohio.
The tax shall be within the ten
mill limitation imposed by law, shall
be and is ordered computed, certified, levied and extended upon the
tax duplicate and collected by the
same officers, in the same manner
and at the same time that taxes for
general purposes for each of those
years are certified, extended and
collected, and shall be placed before
and in preference to all other items
and for the full amount thereof. The
funds derived from those tax levies
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account of
the Sinking Fund as required by the
General Bond Ordinance, and those
funds, together with the interest collected on them, shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment
of
the
Bonds
and
are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such tax shall be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that
the City will appropriate annually
from the proceeds of the City’s
municipal income taxes an amount
as is necessary to meet the annual
debt charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. The proceeds of the
Bonds to be applied to pay costs of
any
Credit
Support
Instruments

580

April 24, 2019
obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be paid to the provider or
providers of those Credit Support
Instruments. The proceeds from the
sale of the Bonds to be used to pay
costs of issuing the Bonds shall be
deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar Agreement pending their application to the payment of such costs.
Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance,
and notwithstanding Chapter 179 of
the
Codified
Ordinances,
any
accrued interest and any premium
received from the sale of the Bonds
shall be deposited in the Unvoted
Tax Supported Obligations Account
of the Sinking Fund to be applied
to the payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit
and general property taxing power
(as described in Section 5) of the
City are hereby pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds in accordance with
the laws and Constitution of the
State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the
General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or subaccounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,

April 24, 2019
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal
amount
not
to
exceed
$18,000,000 (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance
to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding 5.00% per year, as may be
fixed by the Director of Finance of
the City in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be dated their date of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five
years
from
such
date
of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of a financial
advisor, determines that it is in the
best interest of the City in order to
enhance the marketability of the
Notes, the Director of Finance may
cause
the
Notes
to
not
be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated
“Public
Facilities
Improvement
Bond Anticipation Notes”; shall be

The City Record
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book-entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semiannually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth month following their date
of issuance, interest on the Notes
shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note
Registrar”).
The
Escrow
Agent also shall act as paying
agent for the Notes if the Notes are
held in a book-entry system. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an agreement among the
City, the Note Registrar and the
Escrow Agent (the “Note Registrar
Agreement”) providing for services
relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange and payment of Notes on
terms that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer

581

15
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of
the Ohio Revised Code, the Director
of Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City for purposes of their sale
as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bond Anticipation Notes.” The Notes
shall contain a summary statement
of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the Notes are issued
and shall state that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance.
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which
they are issued and that they are
issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Each Note shall be authenticated by
the manual signature of an authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Notes shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance, and,
consistent with Section 133.27 of the
Ohio Revised Code and notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either
or both of those signatures may be
a facsimile. The Notes shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes
and shall endorse thereon the Director of Law’s approval of the form
thereof by the Director of Law’s
manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund
and, if not purchased by them, shall
be offered to the Treasury Investment Account for purchase and, if
not purchased for that Account,
shall be sold to one or more firms
that have proposed to underwrite or
purchase the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount

16
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the
pledges and liens authorized by the
General Bond Ordinance and, in
addition to the taxes and revenues
specifically pledged pursuant to this
Ordinance and the General Bond
Ordinance and the other covenants,
terms
and
agreements
provided
hereunder and in the General Bond
Ordinance to secure payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Notes, the City hereby determines,
declares, warrants and covenants
that the Notes are general obligations of the City and that the full
faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this
Ordinance and the General Bond
Ordinance. The par value to be
received from the sale of the Bonds
or of any renewal notes and any
excess funds resulting from the
issuance of the Notes shall, to the
extent necessary, be used to pay the
debt charges on the Notes at maturity and are pledged for that purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general purposes for each year are certified, extended and collected. That
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies required
by this Ordinance shall be placed in
the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those funds,
together with the interest collected
on
them,
shall
be
irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or

The City Record
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity
each Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”).
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and to sign
and deliver, in the name and on
behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate,
which shall constitute the continuing disclosure agreement made by
the City for the benefit of the holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing
disclosure
agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or

582

April 24, 2019
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant
to Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section
14.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds or arbitrage
bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (the “Code”) or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds the
interest on which is excluded from
gross income under Section 103 of
the Code, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of
the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield
on
investment
property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or status of the
Notes and the Bonds or interest
thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with requirements for that purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate amount or payments or penalties, or making payments of special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which

April 24, 2019
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes and the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Notes and the Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement
or other credit enhancement instrument as further security for the payment when due of the principal of
and interest on all or any portion of
the Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director
of Finance may request a rating on
the Bonds or Notes from one or more
nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things
and
take
any
and
all
actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings on the Bonds or Notes. The
Director of Finance may enter into
one or more agreements for Credit
Support
Instruments
containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance. The expenditure of the amounts necessary to
secure Credit Support Instruments
or obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds or
Notes to the extent available and
otherwise from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchasers
and any other party interested in
the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and any of its committees that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal

The City Record
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance
is authorized to forward a certified
copy of this Ordinance and of the
Certificate of Award for the Bonds
and any Note Certificate of Award
to the County Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County and to secure a
receipt therefor.
Section 20. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations,
trust
indentures,
trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,

583

17
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 510-2019.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$23,000,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal
street
system
and
related
facilities and authorizing related
matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $23,000,000
(the “Bonds”) to finance the costs of
certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of
the improvements to be financed
with the proceeds of the Bonds is at
least five years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 19
years, as evidenced by the certificate contained in File No. 510-2019A; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance
No. 944-96, passed June 10, 1996
(Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and as the same may further be
amended from time to time in accordance with its provisions, is referred
to as the “General Bond Ordinance”),
providing the general terms and provisions for the issuance of unvoted
general obligations of the City, with
the specific terms of each series of
Bonds to be contained in ordinances
authorizing the issuance of bonds in
accordance
with
the
provisions
thereof (the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary
to provide funds to pay the costs of
certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 hereof that
are urgently needed for the benefit
of the City, and as a result, this
Ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety, and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $23,000,000 for the purpose of
providing funds to improve the
municipal street system and related
facilities, including streets, expressways, roadways, driveways, driveway approaches, retaining walls,
underground vaults, sidewalks, ADA
ramps, bikeways and pedestrian

18
walkways, by acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, opening, extending, widening, grading, draining,
paving, resurfacing, sealing and
curbing, removing and replacing
trees within the public right of way,
installing gutters, sidewalks and
related
pedestrian
and
cyclist
improvements,
constructing
and
improving culverts, resetting and
constructing catch basins and other
storm drainage facilities, installing
water
lines,
constructing,
reconstructing, replacing, renovating and
improving bridges, acquiring any
real estate and interests in real
estate, including easements, necessary for such purpose, and installing
lighting and signs, signals, markings and other devices for traffic
control purposes, together with all
necessary and incidental appurtenances, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section
133.01(K) of the Ohio Revised Code
and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds
of securities as permitted by Section
133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised Code
and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133
of the Ohio Revised Code and other
applicable provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, the General Bond Ordinance
and this Ordinance for the purpose
stated in Section 1 hereof. The
Bonds shall be designated “Bridges
and Roadways Improvement Bonds”
and may contain such further designation as provided in the certificate of award providing for the
final terms of the Bonds and the
sale of the Bonds signed by the
Director of Finance in accordance
with this Ordinance (the “Certificate
of Award”). The Bonds shall be
issued in one lot as fully registered
Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof. The
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the
Certificate of Award, which shall
not exceed the amount stated in Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be
dated their date of issuance and
shall bear interest from their date
until the principal amount is paid at
the rate or rates per year specified
in the Certificate of Award, provided that the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed 6.00% per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable when due, or until the principal amount is paid, semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 of each
year that the Bonds are outstanding,
commencing December 1, 2019 (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), unless
otherwise determined by the Director of Finance in the Certificate of
Award.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as
shall be permitted by law and determined by the Director of Finance
and specified in the Certificate of
Award, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor (as defined in
Section 16) to be in the best interests of the City, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur

The City Record
on an Interest Payment Date, (ii)
the first principal payment on the
Bonds shall be no later than August
1, 2021, (iii) the final maturity date
of the Bonds shall be no later than
19 years from that date which is 12
months prior to the first date on
which provision for payment of principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount thereof shall be payable in
annual installments such that the
total principal and interest payments on the Bonds in any fiscal
year in which principal is payable
is not more than three times the
amount of those payments in any
other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of
100%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against
the
then-current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) of the City for any Term
Bonds. That option shall be exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date,
by furnishing the Escrow Agent a
certificate, signed by the Registrar,
setting forth the extent of the credit to be applied with respect to the
then-current
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement. If
the certificate is not timely furnished to the Escrow Agent, the
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) shall not be reduced. A
credit
against
the
then-current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption

584

April 24, 2019
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled by the Registrar, to the
extent not applied theretofore as a
credit
against
any
mandatory
redemption obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100% of the
principal amount thereof against the
then-current
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then-current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional
redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed) specified in the Certificate of Award, plus, in each case,
accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102%
of
the
principal
amount
redeemed plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, the Director of Finance may
determine
in
the
Certificate
of
Award that it is in the best interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least 45 days prior to the
redemption date or such shorter
period as shall be acceptable to the
Registrar. There shall be deposited
with the Registrar on or prior to the
redemption date funds sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price all
of the redeemable Bonds for which
notice of redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less

April 24, 2019
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds to
be purchased in lieu of redemption
shall be equal to the principal of,
any accrued but unpaid interest on,
and any premium that would have
been payable on the Bonds on the
redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the
purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners
of the Bonds in addition to the
notice of redemption required by
this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent
or Registrar, as paying agent, shall
not purchase Bonds if sufficient
moneys have not been deposited
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, by the City for the
purpose. On or prior to the scheduled date for optional redemption,
the City may rescind its direction to
purchase the Bonds in lieu of
redemption by written notice from
the Director of Finance to the Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In the
event that the direction to purchase
is rescinded, the Bonds shall be
redeemed on the redemption date set
forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding
Bonds
are
called
for
redemption at one time (whether for
redemption or purchase in lieu of
redemption), they shall be called in
the order of maturities directed by
the Director of Finance. If fewer
than all Bonds of a single maturity
are to be redeemed or purchased in
lieu of redemption, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed or purchased,
or portions thereof in amounts of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the Registrar
by lot in a manner determined by
the Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption
or
purchase
of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of
the denomination of $5,000. If it is
determined that one or more, but not
all of the $5,000 units of principal
amount represented by a Bond are
to be called for redemption, then
upon notice of redemption of a
$5,000 unit or units, the registered
owner of that Bond shall surrender
the Bond to the Registrar (i) for
payment of the redemption or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption and any premium), and
(ii) for issuance, without charge to
the registered owner thereof, of a
new Bond or Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal

The City Record
amount equal to the unmatured portion of the Bond not redeemed or
purchased and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or
portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption
notice
by
first-class
mail, postage prepaid, at least 30
days prior to the date fixed for
redemption (or such period specified
in the Certificate of Award), to the
registered owner of each Bond subject to redemption in whole or in
part
at
the
registered
owner’s
address shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at
the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any provider of a Credit Support Instrument (as defined in Section 15 hereof) for the Bonds or
designated portions thereof. Failure
to receive notice by mail or any
defect in that notice regarding any
Bond, however, shall not affect the
validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may
specify that the redemption is contingent on the deposit of moneys
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, on or prior to the
redemption date in an amount sufficient to pay the redemption price
of the Bonds to be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, in an amount sufficient
to pay the redemption price, the
Bonds and portions thereof called
for redemption shall become due
and payable on the redemption date,
and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or places specified
in that notice, shall be paid. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, including interest accrued
to the redemption date, is held by
the Registrar on the redemption
date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on
the redemption date, or that notice
shall not have been deposited in the
mail, those Bonds and portions
thereof shall continue to bear interest, until they are paid, at the same
rate as they would have borne had
they not been called for redemption.
All money held by the Registrar for
the redemption of particular Bonds
shall be held in trust for the account
of the registered owners and shall
be paid to them, respectively, upon
presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be

585

19
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3 hereof) at the close of business on
the date provided in the Registrar
Agreement authorized and defined
in Section 3 hereof (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book-entry
system (as described in Section 3
hereof), debt charges on the Bonds
will be payable in lawful money of
the United States by wire transfer
to the Depository made by the
Escrow Agent on each Interest Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 (pertaining generally to the periods during which the City is not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), will apply
to the Bonds. Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance
is included as a part of this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this
Ordinance. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Ordinance
shall have the same meaning as set
forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance, and,
consistent with Section 133.27 of the
Ohio Revised Code and notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either
or both of those signatures may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon the
Director of Law’s approval of the
form thereof by the Director of
Law’s manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds
(the
“Registrar”).
The
Escrow Agent shall also act as paying agent for the Bonds so long as
the Bonds are held in a book-entry
system. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
an agreement among the City, Registrar and Escrow Agent (the “Registrar Agreement”), approved as to
form by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and

20
payment of the Bonds on terms
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City and consistent
with this Ordinance and not substantially adverse to the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Registrar Agreement
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any

The City Record
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book-entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book-entry form” or “book-entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book-entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds,
in
book-entry
form,
and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book-entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book-entry
system and, if and as long as a
book-entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book-entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book-entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a bookentry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book-entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall

586

April 24, 2019
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized to the extent necessary or required to enter into any
agreements determined necessary in
connection with the book-entry system for the Bonds, after determining that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of
the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite or purchase the Bonds
and have been selected by the Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original
Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and
the Original Purchaser’s offer to
purchase the Bonds, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, the
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount of the Bonds plus any
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds
and
any
other
matters
required in this Ordinance to be set
forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor,
Director of Finance, Director of
Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a bond purchase agreement
between the City and the Original
Purchaser
(the
“Bond
Purchase

April 24, 2019
Agreement”), approved as to form
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Bonds
and the Original Purchaser agrees
to buy the Bonds, which shall be
consistent with this Ordinance, not
substantially adverse to the City,
and approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of
the Ohio Revised Code, the Director
of Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2019”
or such other designation as may be
set forth in the Certificate of Award.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds
are
outstanding,
in
an
amount sufficient to provide for the
payment of that interest, when and
as the same shall fall due, and also
to discharge the principal of the
Bonds at maturity, which tax shall
not be less than the interest and
sinking fund tax required by Section
11 of Article XII of the Constitution
of Ohio.
The tax shall be within the tenmill limitation imposed by law, shall
be and is ordered computed, certified, levied and extended upon the
tax duplicate and collected by the
same officers, in the same manner
and at the same time that taxes for
general purposes for each of those
years are certified, extended and
collected, and shall be placed before
and in preference to all other items
and for the full amount thereof. The
funds derived from those tax levies
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account of
the Sinking Fund as required by the
General Bond Ordinance, and those
funds, together with the interest collected on them, shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment
of
the
Bonds
and
are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such tax shall be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to

The City Record
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that
the City will appropriate annually
from the proceeds of the City’s
municipal income taxes an amount
as is necessary to meet the annual
debt charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. The proceeds of the
Bonds to be applied to pay costs of
any
Credit
Support
Instruments
obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be paid to the provider or
providers of those Credit Support
Instruments. The proceeds from the
sale of the Bonds to be used to pay
costs of issuing the Bonds shall be
deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar Agreement pending their application to the payment of such costs.
Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance,
and notwithstanding Chapter 179 of
the
Codified
Ordinances,
any
accrued interest and any premium
received from the sale of the Bonds
shall be deposited in the Unvoted
Tax Supported Obligations Account
of the Sinking Fund to be applied
to the payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit
and general property taxing power
(as described in Section 5) of the
City are hereby pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds in accordance with
the laws and Constitution of the
State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the
General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts

587

21
or subaccounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or subaccounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal
amount
not
to
exceed
$23,000,000 (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance
to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding 5.00% per year, as may be
fixed by the Director of Finance of
the City in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be dated their date of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five
years
from
such
date
of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of a financial
advisor, determines that it is in the

22
best interest of the City in order to
enhance the marketability of the
Notes, the Director of Finance may
cause
the
Notes
to
not
be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated
“Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes”; shall
be issued in such numbers and
denominations as may be requested
by the Note Purchaser (hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book-entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semiannually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth month following their date
of issuance, interest on the Notes
shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note
Registrar”).
The
Escrow
Agent also shall act as paying
agent for the Notes if the Notes are
held in a book-entry system. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an agreement among the
City, the Note Registrar and the
Escrow Agent (the “Note Registrar
Agreement”) providing for services
relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange and payment of Notes on
terms that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of

The City Record
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
Ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of
the Ohio Revised Code, the Director
of Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City for purposes of their sale
as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bond Anticipation Notes.” The Notes
shall contain a summary statement
of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the Notes are issued
and shall state that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance.
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which
they are issued and that they are
issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Each Note shall be authenticated by
the manual signature of an authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Notes shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance, and,
consistent with Section 133.27 of the
Ohio Revised Code and notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either
or both of those signatures may be
a facsimile. The Notes shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes
and shall endorse thereon the Director of Law’s approval of the form
thereof by the Director of Law’s
manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund
and, if not purchased by them, shall
be offered to the Treasury Investment Account for purchase and, if
not purchased for that Account,
shall be sold to one or more firms
that have proposed to underwrite or
purchase the Notes and have been

588

April 24, 2019
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the
pledges and liens authorized by the
General Bond Ordinance and, in
addition to the taxes and revenues
specifically pledged pursuant to this
Ordinance and the General Bond
Ordinance and the other covenants,
terms
and
agreements
provided
hereunder and in the General Bond
Ordinance to secure payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Notes, the City hereby determines,
declares, warrants and covenants
that the Notes are general obligations of the City and that the full
faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this
Ordinance and the General Bond
Ordinance. The par value to be
received from the sale of the Bonds
or of any renewal notes and any
excess funds resulting from the
issuance of the Notes shall, to the
extent necessary, be used to pay the
debt charges on the Notes at maturity and are pledged for that purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general purposes for each year are certified, extended and collected. That
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies required
by this Ordinance shall be placed in
the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those funds,
together with the interest collected
on
them,
shall
be
irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (each, an “Official Statement”) is appropriate or

April 24, 2019
necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity
each Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”).
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and to sign
and deliver, in the name and on
behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate,
which shall constitute the continuing disclosure agreement made by
the City for the benefit of the holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing
disclosure
agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to

The City Record
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant
to Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section
14.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds or arbitrage
bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (the “Code”) or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds the
interest on which is excluded from
gross income under Section 103 of
the Code, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of
the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield
on
investment
property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or status of the
Notes and the Bonds or interest
thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with requirements for that purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate amount or payments or penalties, or making payments of special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf

589

23
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes and the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Notes and the Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement
or other credit enhancement instrument as further security for the payment when due of the principal of
and interest on all or any portion of
the Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director
of Finance may request a rating on
the Bonds or Notes from one or more
nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things
and
take
any
and
all
actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings on the Bonds or Notes. The
Director of Finance may enter into
one or more agreements for Credit
Support
Instruments
containing
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance. The expenditure of the amounts necessary to
secure Credit Support Instruments
or obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds or
Notes to the extent available and
otherwise from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchasers
and any other party interested in
the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and any of its committees that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in

24
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance
is authorized to forward a certified
copy of this Ordinance and of the
Certificate of Award for the Bonds
and any Note Certificate of Award
to the County Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County and to secure a
receipt therefor.
Section 20. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations,
trust
indentures,
trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take

The City Record
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 511-2019.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more mutual aid
agreements with other political subdivisions in the State of Ohio for
additional police protection, fire,
and emergency medical services for
aid and assistance in connection
with the Major League Baseball
Association
2019
All-Star
Game
being held in Cleveland on July 9,
2019, along with associated events
and activities on days before and
after the day of the Game.
Whereas, it is the intent of the
City to provide for, and mutually
enhance, the police, fire, and emergency medical service protection
capabilities of the City and other
municipalities in the Greater Cleveland area during the Major League
Baseball Association 2019 All-Star
Game to be held in the City of
Cleveland on July 9, 2019, and the
associated events, activities, and
security concerns during and in the
days before and after the Game for
the benefit of the public safety and
welfare during the time period of
approximately July 5, 2019, through
July 10, 2019; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions in the State of Ohio for
additional police protection, fire,
and emergency medical services in
connection with the Major League
Baseball Association 2019 All-Star
Game to be held in the City of
Cleveland on July 9, 2019, and the
associated events, activities, and
security concerns during the time
period including and surrounding
the Game of approximately July 5,
2019, through July 10, 2019.
Section 2. The Director of Law
shall review all such agreements to
determine that the terms and conditions are appropriate and consistent
with the City’s interests.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 512-2019.
By Council Members B. Jones,
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use

590

April 24, 2019
located at the northeast corner of
East 93rd Street and Chester Avenue
to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation
for purposes of constructing a dental clinic.
Whereas, the Director of Capital
Projects has requested the sale of
the City-owned property to The
Cleveland Clinic Foundation (the
“Redeveloper”) no longer needed for
the City’s public use and located at
the northeast corner of East 93rd
Street and Chester Avenue for purposes of constructing a dental clinic; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for the
City’s public use:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 401
and
is
further
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a stone monument
found on the centerline of Chester
Avenue (Width Varies) and a distance of 29.59 feet Easterly from the
centerline East 93rd Street (60 Feet
Wide);
Thence North 00°36'52" East, a
distance of 43.01 feet to the intersection of the Easterly right of way
of said East 93rd Street and the
Northerly right of way of said
Chester Avenue;
Thence
North
00°02'28"
East,
along the Easterly right of way of
said East 93rd Street, a distance of
10.00 feet to the principal place of
beginning;
Course 1:
Thence North 00°02'28" East, continuing along the Easterly right of
way of said East 93rd Street, a distance of 3.16 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set at the Southwesterly corner of a
parcel of land owned by the Cleveland Clinic Foundation as shown in
recorded plat in Volume 318 of
Maps, Page 52 of Cuyahoga County
Records;
Course 2:
Thence
North
89°49'28"
East,
along the Southerly line of said
Cleveland Clinic Foundation parcel,
a distance of 160.00 feet to a 5/8"
iron pin set on the Westerly line of
a P.P.N. 119-08-085 and conveyed to
Cleveland
Clinic
Foundation
by
A.F.N. 201705090015 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Course 3:
Thence
South
00°02'28"
West,
along the Westerly line of said
P.P.N. 119-08-085 a Cleveland Clinic
Foundation parcel, a distance of
18.38 feet to a capped 5/8" iron pin
(#7513) found at the Southwesterly
corner of said P.P.N. 119-08-085 a
Cleveland Clinic Foundation parcel
and a point on the Northerly right
of way of said Chester Avenue;
Course 4:
Thence
North
88°18'25"
West,
along the Northerly right of way of
said Chester Avenue, a distance of
12.07 feet;

April 24, 2019
Course 5:
Thence North 81°12'36" West, a
distance of 80.91 feet;
Course 6:
Thence North 88°18'25" West, a
distance of 68.00 feet to the principal place of beginning and containing 0.0331 Acre (1,443 S.F.) of land
according to a survey made by
Steven J. Metcalf Registered Surveyor No. 8622-Ohio in July 12, 2016
Be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
Monuments described as “5/8" iron
pin set” are 5/8" x 30" rebar capped
“Neff & Assoc.-8622.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described
property
to
the
Redeveloper at a price not less than
the
appraised
value
of
$38,947,
which is determined to be fair market value.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the City’s interests and shall specifically contain a
provision against the erection of
any advertising signs or billboards
except
permitted
identification
signs.
Section 4. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
execute any documents as may be
necessary to effectuate the purposes
of this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
Ord. No. 513-2019.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating several offices and one area in
City Hall caused by water damage;
and authorizing the Directors of
Capital
Projects
and/or
Public
Works to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement;
authorizing the Director of Finance
to lease office space to temporarily
locate employees while renovations
are being made to their offices, for
a period up to one year; authorizing
the acceptance of gifts and grants;
and authorizing the purchase and
rental by one or more requirement
contracts of furniture, furniture systems,
equipment,
comprehensive
moving and storage services.
Whereas, in January 2019, several
water pipes broke in City Hall causing
substantial
damage
to
the
offices of the Departments of Law,
Community Relations, and Economic Development and to an area in
the Custodian’s Office; and

The City Record
Whereas,
employees
in
those
departments are currently relocated,
or will need to be relocated, in temporary work places at several offsite locations; and
Whereas, it is necessary to begin
the emergency repairs to those
areas so that employees can be
returned to their offices and can
continue the business of the City;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
rehabilitating the Departments of
Law,
Community
Relations,
and
Economic Development, and to an
area in the Custodian’s Office, for
the Department of Capital Projects
and/or Public Works by one or more
contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Capital
Projects
and/or
Public
Works is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making of the public improvement with
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a
gross price for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
for a gross price. On request of the
Director of Capital Projects and/or
Public Works, the contractor shall
furnish a correct schedule of unit
prices, including profit and overhead, for all items constituting units
of the improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Capital
Projects
and/or
Public
Works is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority
to permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Capital
Projects
and/or
Public
Works is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements to be determined by the Director of Capital
Projects and/or Public Works of the
necessary items of furniture and furniture systems, including installation,
to
be
purchased
by
the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Departments
of
Law,
Community
Relations, Economic Development
and to an area affected in the Custodian’s Office. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 5. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,

591

25
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Finance
is authorized to lease office space to
temporarily locate employees while
renovations are being made to their
offices under Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 6. That the term of the
lease or leases shall not exceed one
year.
Section 7. That the rent for lease
or leases shall be fair market value,
exclusive of utilities, as determined
by the Board of Control.
Section 8. That the lease or leases may authorize the City to make
improvements to the leased premises under terms to be determined by
the parties to be consistent with the
public purpose or purposes of providing office space while the emergency repairs are being done.
Section 9. That the lease or leases may provide for the City’s payment of appropriate utility and
other operating costs of the leased
premises.
Section 10. That the lease or leases shall be prepared by the Director
of Law and shall contain any terms
and conditions as are required to
protect the interests of the City.
Section 11. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a period to be determined by the
director of the necessary items for
the rental of office furniture and
equipment, and the purchase of comprehensive moving and storage services if the Director of Finance
enters into a lease agreement for
temporary office space under this
ordinance, to be procured and purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Department of Finance. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 12. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the procurements and purchases authorized in
Sections 4 and 11 may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Capital Projects,
Public Works and/or Finance may
sign all documents that are necessary to make the procurements and
purchases, and may enter into one
or more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 13. That the Director of
Capital
Projects,
Public
Works
and/or Finance, and other appropriate City officials are authorized to
execute any other documents and
certificates, and take any other
actions which may be necessary or
appropriate to effectuate this ordinance.
Section 14. That the Director of
Capital
Projects,
Public
Works,
Finance, and/or Law is authorized
to apply for and accept any grants
or gifts from any public or private
entity, including but not limited to
the gift of furniture, to implement
this ordinance. The Director of Capital
Projects,
Public
Works,
Finance, and/or Law is authorized
to file all papers and execute all

26
documents necessary to receive any
funds; and that the funds are appropriated for the purpose of implementing this ordinance.
Section 15. That the cost of the
improvement and expenditures for
the rehabilitation of the offices of
the Departments of Law, Community Relations, and Economic Development, and to an area in the
Custodian’s Office, shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 01-1001-6930, 20 SF
566, 20 SF 573, 20 SF 578, 20 SF 585,
20 SF 588, from the fund or funds to
which are credited the proceeds
from the sale of future bonds if
issued for this purpose, and other
funds approved by the Director of
Finance.
Section 16. That the costs of any
lease of temporary office space
needed for any affected department
while the rehabilitation to their
office is being done shall be paid
from Fund No. 01-1001-6930 and from
funds approved by the Director of
Finance.
Section 17. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
for the purchase of furniture and
furniture systems, including installation, shall be paid from Fund Nos.
20 SF 566, 20 SF 573, 20 SF 578, 20
SF 585, 20 SF 588, and from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
proceeds from the sale of future
bonds if issued for this purpose; and
the costs of the requirement contract or contracts for the rental of
office furniture and equipment and
the purchase of moving services and
storage for an affected department
if entering into a lease agreement
for temporary office space under
this ordinance, shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director
of
Finance shall certify the amount of
any purchase or procurement under
the contract or contracts, each of
which purchases or procurements
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
by a delivery order issued against
the contract or contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
(RQS 0103, RLA 2019-24)
Section 18. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, Public Works, Finance,
Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 516-2019.
By Council Members Griffin, Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the acquisition and recording of
certain
easement
interests
from
Uptown Three L.P. for use of a public sidewalk to be used as a dropoff area for students and residents,
for the Office of Capital Projects.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,

The City Record
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to acquire,
accept, and record certain easement
rights from Uptown Three L.P. for
use of a public sidewalk to be used
as a drop-off area for students and
residents, in and to the premises
more particularly described as follows:
SIDEWALK EASEMENT ON
P.P.N. 120-23-016
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Parcel “A-1” in the Plat of Lot Split
of Parcel “A” of part of Original 100
Acre Lot No. 395 as shown by the
plat recorded in Volume 373, Page
55 of Cuyahoga County Map Records
and further known as being part of
Parcel “G” in the Lot Split and Consolidation of Parcels “A-1” and “A-2”
as
recorded
in
the
A.F.N.
201903180407 of Cuyahoga County
Map
Records
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the centerline of Euclid Avenue
(State Route 20) (80 feet wide) and
the centerline of East 115th Street
(formerly Rosedale Avenue) (50 feet
wide);
Thence
North
31°07'22"
West
along the centerline of East 115th
Street, 41.61 feet to a point;
Thence North 42°52'53" East to
the intersection of the easterly right
of way of East 115th Street and the
northerly right of way of Euclid
Avenue;
Thence
North
31°07'22"
West
along the easterly right of way of
East 115th Street, 26.06 feet to a
point and the PRINCIPAL PLACE
OF BEGINNING of the easement
herein described;
Thence North 31°07'22" West, continuing along the easterly right of
way of East 115th Street, 71.00 feet
to a point;
Thence North 58°52'38" East, 0.88
feet to a point;
Thence South 47°07'22" East, 6.49
feet to a point;
Thence South 31°07'22" East, 64.77
feet to a point;
Thence South 58°52'38" West 2.67
feet to the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF
BEGINNING and containing 0.0042
acres (184 square feet) of land as
described by Edward B. Dudley, P.S.
No. 6747 of The Riverstone Company in January 2019 subject to all
legal highways, restrictions, reservations and easements.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That the cost of the
acquiring, accepting, and recording
the easement rights shall be $1.00
and other valuable consideration
which is determined to be fair market value or the amount of the jury
verdict in the event eminent domain
is needed to acquire the easement
interests in and to the premises. The
purchase
price,
appraisal,
title,
escrow, and all other costs incurred
in acquiring and recording the easement interests shall be paid from
the fund or funds deemed appropriate by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
execute any documents on behalf of
the City of Cleveland necessary to
effect the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

592

April 24, 2019
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 519-2019.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the appropriate Director or
Directors to enter into a grant
agreement with Ohio City Incorporated to provide program support for
Near West Recreation youth programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the appropriate
Director or Directors are authorized
to enter into a grant agreement with
Ohio City Incorporated to provide
program support for Near West
Recreation youth programs, as set
forth in Ohio City Incorporated’s
grant proposal. This grant agreement shall be entered into for the
2019-2020 program year.
The agreement shall be certified
in
an
amount
not
to
exceed
$50,000.00 from funds to be determined by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 520-2019.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into a Trademark License Agreement with the U.S. Census Bureau,
U.S. Department of Commerce.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into a
Trademark License Agreement with
the United States Census Bureau,
United States Department of Commerce, to use the 2020 Census logo
on 2020 Census promotional materials for Cleveland City Council for a
period of two years.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Director of Law; Committee on Finance.

April 24, 2019

The City Record

27

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 514-2019.
By Council Member McCormack.
An ordinance establishing a zero foot Mapped Building Setback from the property line along the southern side
of Carter Road between Riverbed Street and the eastern property line of Permanent Parcel No. 004-26-040 (Map
Change 2600).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That a Mapped Building Setback of zero (0) feet from the property line shall be established on the
northern frontages of parcels of land along the south eastern side of Carter Road between the southwestern line
of a parcel of land quit-claimed unto Irishtown Bend Condominium Association on July 2, 2018 and known as
being Block A in the Carter Road Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 70, as shown by
the plat recorded as Instrument No. 2018011260402 (formerly AFN #201801260382) of Cuyahoga County Records also
known as Permanent Parcel No. (PPN) 004-26-041; and the eastern line of a parcel of land conveyed by deed to
Lake Link LLC on January 26, 2018 and known as being Sublot No. 12 in said Subdivision, as shown by the aforementioned plat of Cuyahoga County Records (PPN: 004-26-040);
And as identified on the attached map, the zero (0) foot mapped building setback from the property line is hereby established on the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland;
Section 2. That the changes described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2600, and shall be
made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the
City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.

593

The City Record

28
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 515-2019.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into agreement with Laura M. Bala
to provide consulting services for
the Commercial Revitalization Services for E. 185th Street Project
through the use of Ward 8 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective May 1, 2019
with Laura M. Bala to provide consulting services for the Commercial
Revitalization Services for E. 185th
Street Project for the public purpose
of reducing slum and blight along
the E. 185th Street corridor in the
city of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 8 casino revenue funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as she deems necessary to protect
the City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 521-2019.
By Council Member Griffin.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 10300
Union Avenue and Patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from 10300 Union,
Inc., DBA Larobbs Nightclub, 10300
Union Avenue and patio, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, Permit Number 6549357
to Ant Hill, LLC, 10300 Union
Avenue and patio, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permit No. 02283900005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and

Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from 10300 Union,
Inc., DBA Larobbs Nightclub, 10300
Union Avenue and patio, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, Permit Number 6549357
to Ant Hill, LLC, 10300 Union
Avenue and patio, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permit No. 02283900005; and
requests
the
Superintendent
of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
15. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1187-18.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).

594

April 24, 2019
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located on Brookpark Road near
NASA Glenn Research Center to
21000 Brookpark Landlord, LLC, for
purposes of providing parking for a
redevelopment to be located in
Fairview Park; and to enter into a
purchase and sale agreement.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 324-2019.
By Council Members McCormack,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development
to
enter
into
a
Tax
Increment
Financing
Agreement
with Sustainable Community Associates, LTD, or its designee, to support debt service related to the
project and assist with the development of market rate apartments,
retail space and residential parking;
to provide for payments to the
Cleveland City School District; and
to declare certain improvements to
real property to be a public purpose.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In Section 1, beginning in line
5, strike all nine legal descriptions
and insert the following:
“LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Parcel A
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being all of Sublots
167, 169, 171 and part of 173 in the
John
G.
Jennings
University
Heights Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 71
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 1 of Maps, Page 15 of Cuyahoga County Records, and also
being part of One Acre parcel in the
Francis & Branch Subdivision of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot No. 71 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
9 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
more further known as being Parcel
“A” containing 1.2750 Acres (55,540
S.F.) of land in the Map of Survey
& Lot Consolidation for Tappan
Building, LLC as shown by the
recorded plat in A.F.N. 201903200421
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Map
Records, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 004-20-128
Parcel B
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being a part of
Sublots 168 and 170 in the John G.
Jennings University Heights Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 71 as shown by

April 24, 2019
the recorded plat in Volume 1 of
Maps, Page 15 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and more further known as
being Parcel “B” containing 0.2954
Acres (12,868 S.F.) of land in the
Map of Survey & Lot Consolidation
for Tappan Building, LLC as shown
by the recorded plat in A.F.N.
201903200421 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 004-20-129”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea: Council Members
Bishop,
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Conwell, Griffin, Hairston, Johnson, B. Jones, J. Jones,
Kelley,
Keane,
McCormack,
and
Polensek.
Those voting nay: None.
Absent: Council Members Santana
and Zone.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Kazy
recused
himself
from
the
vote
regarding Ordinance No. 324-19.
Ord. No. 374-2019.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of one aircraft rescue and
firefighting vehicle, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 401-2019.
By Council Members McCormack,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development
to
enter
into
a
Tax
Increment
Financing
Agreement
with CLE Dexter LLC and/or its
designee, in consideration for the
developer agreeing to make certain
improvement to the property; to provide for payments to the Cleveland
City School District; and to declare
certain improvements to real property to be a public purpose.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In Section 1, beginning in line
5, strike the legal description in its
entirety and insert the following:
“March 5, 2019
Legal Description of
Consolidated Parcel “A”
In the City of Cleveland, Ohio
1.0467 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State

The City Record
of Ohio, being part of original
Brooklyn Township Lot 51 and further being a consolidation of all of
Lot 1 of the “Map of Consolidation
for Urban Properties Group” as
shown by plat recorded in volume
340, page 88 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records, and all of Block A of
“Map of Consolidation for Lutheran
Medical Center as shown by plat
recorded in volume 380, page 36 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records, and
being deed parcels 1 and 2 of land
conveyed to CLE Dexter, LLC by
deed recorded as AFN 201902250381,
of Cuyahoga County Records (PPN
003-27-026 and PPN 003-27-029), further described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the centerline of Franklin Blvd.
N.W. (66 feet wide), and the centerline of West 28th Street (66 feet
wide), and witnessed by an iron pin
in a monument box found North
73°22'29" East, 13.35 feet;
Thence
North
12°08'38"
West,
along the centerline of said west
28th Street, 112.79 feet;
Thence
South
77°51'22"
West,
33.00 feet to the intersection of the
westerly right of way of said West
28th Street, and the curved northwesterly right of way of Franklin
Circle, witnessed by a drill hole
found 0.06' north, and 0.15' east,
and the Principal Place of Beginning of the following described parcel:
Course 1:
Thence southwesterly, 171.38 feet
along the arc of a curve deflecting
to the left in the northwesterly right
of way of said Franklin Circle, having a radius of 140.00 feet, a delta
of 70°08'23", and a chord of 160.88
feet bearing South 42°43'15" West to
the intersection of the northwesterly right of way of said Franklin Circle, and the northerly right of way
of said Franklin Blvd. and witnessed by a 5/8 inch iron pin found
0.26' north and 0.79' east;
Course 2:
Thence
South
73°22'29"
West,
along the northerly right of way of
said Franklin Blvd., 75.93 feet to a
5/8 inch iron pin (Id: Garrett) found
at the southeasterly corner of land
conveyed to Francis P. Scott by deed
recorded as AFN 200512050381, of
Cuyahoga County Records (PPN 00327-034);
Course 3:
Thence
North
16°37'31"
West,
along the easterly line of said Francis P. Scott, 86.15 feet to a drill hole
found at an angle point therein;
Course 4:
Thence
North
76°22'08"
West,
along the northerly line of said
Francis P. Scott, 4.65 feet to a drill
hole found at the most southerly corner of deed parcel 1 of land conveyed
to
Diocese
of
Cleveland
Facilities Services Corporation, by
deed recorded as AFN 201311060461,
of Cuyahoga County Records (PPN
003-27-093);
Course 5:
Thence
North
43°46'56"
East,
along the southeasterly line of said
deed parcel 1 (PPN 003-27-093) of
land conveyed to Diocese of Cleveland Facilities Services Corporation,

595

29
and the southeasterly line of deed
parcel 3 (PPN 003-27-083) of said
Diocese of Cleveland Facilities Services Corporation, 88.98 feet to a
drill hole found at the most easterly corner thereof and being in the
southwesterly right of way of Dexter Place N.W. (50 feet wide);
Course 6:
Thence
South
46°13'04"
East,
along the southwesterly right of
way of Dexter Place N.W., 2.81 feet
to a 5/8 inch iron pin (Id: Bohning)
found at the most southerly corner
thereof and being the most westerly corner of a portion of Dexter
Place N.W. vacated by ordinance
698-90, passed 6/11/1990;
Course 7:
Thence
North
43°46'56"
East,
along the southeasterly right of way
of Dexter Place N.W., 50.00 feet to a
survey marker nail set at the most
easterly corner thereof and being
the most northerly corner of a portion of Dexter Place N.W. vacated
by
ordinance
698-90,
passed
6/11/1990;
Course 8:
Thence
North
46°13'04"
West,
along the northeasterly right of way
of Dexter Place N.W., 168.62 feet to
the most southerly corner of land
conveyed to Malachi House, Inc.by
deed recorded as AFN 200006151158
of Cuyahoga County Records (PPN
003-27-047), and witnessed by a 5/8
inch iron pin found 0.39 feet north
and 0.41 feet west;
Course 9:
Thence
North
43°46'56"
East,
along a southeasterly line of said
Malachi House, Inc., 76.69 feet to an
angle point therein, and witnessed
by a 5/8 inch iron pin found 0.65 feet
north and 0.08 feet west;
Course 10:
Thence
South
46°13'04"
East,
along a southwesterly line of said
Malachi House, Inc.35.00 feet to an
angle point therein, and witnessed
by a 5/8 inch iron pin found 0.82 feet
north and 0.41 feet East;
Course 11:
Thence
North
43°46'56"
East,
along a southeasterly line of said
Malachi House, Inc., 19.80 feet to the
southeasterly corner thereof, being
in the westerly line of Traci Court
Condominiums as shown by plat
recorded in volume 126, pages 45-49
of the Cuyahoga County Condominium Map Records, and witnessed by
a 5/8 inch iron pin found 0.46 feet
north and 0.40 feet West;
Course 12:
Thence
South
28°51'41"
East,
along the westerly line of said Traci
Court Condominiums, 6.76 feet to a
5/8 inch iron pin (Id: Polaris) set at
the southwesterly corner thereof;
Course 13:
Thence
North
77°51'22"
East,
along the southerly line of said
Traci Court Condominiums, 94.48
feet to the westerly right of way of
said West 28th Street, and witnessed
by a 5/8 inch iron pin (Id: McSteen)
found 0.03 feet north, and 0.05 feet
east;

30
Course 14:
Thence
South
12°08'38"
East,
along the westerly right of way of
said West 28th Street, 223.18 feet to
the Principal Place of Beginning
and containing 1.0467 acres of land,
per survey performed in February,
2019 by Michael P. Spellacy, P.S.
8169 of Polaris Engineering and Surveying, subject to all legal highways and easements of record. The
bearings used herein are based on
the Ohio State Plane Coordinate System of 1983 – North Zone, as adjusted in 1986, and all iron pins set are
5/8 inch diameter by 30 inch long
rebar
with
identification
caps
stamped “Polaris S-7087". The intent
of this instrument is to combine all
of PPN 003-27-026 and all of PPN 00327-029 into a single parcel.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 404-2019.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. CT 3001 PS 2017-176
with IntelliNet Corporation to provide technical support and maintenance
of
core
information
technology
activities,
and
other
related services, for the Department
of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 443-2019.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 125.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 126-01,
passed March 26, 2001, relating to
the Law Director’s powers and
duties; and to amend Section 3 of
Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March

The City Record
30, 2015, relating to compensation
for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 482-2019.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution urging
the
Ohio
General
Assembly
to
increase the Ohio Rape Crisis Centers Line Item in the Ohio Operating
Budget
from
$1,550,000
to
$3,000,000 per fiscal year.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Keane, the absences of Council
Members Jasmin Santana and Matt
Zone are hereby authorized. Seconded by Council Member Griffin.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:31 p.m. to meet on Monday, April
29, 2019, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

April 24, 2019
BOARD OF CONTROL
April 17, 2019
The meeting of the Board of Control convened in the Mayor’s office
on Wednesday, April 17, 2019 at
10:35 a.m. with Director Langhenry
presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Others: Deborah Midgett, Acting
Commissioner, Division of Purchases & Supplies.
Matthew Spronz, Director, Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects.
Melissa Burrows, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On
motions,
the
resolutions
attached were adopted, except as
may be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 127-19.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 70-19, adopted March 6,
2019, authorized the Director of
Finance to enter into contract with
Centric Consulting, LLC to perform
professional services related to Project
Management
and
Business
Analysis; and
Whereas,
Resolution
No.
70-19
incorrectly stated Centric Consulting’s proposal date; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 70-19, adopted by this
Board March 6, 2019, authorizing the
Director of Finance to enter into
contract with Centric Consulting,
LLC, for performance of professional services related to Project Management and Business Analysis, is
amended by deleting the proposal
date of October 29, 2018 where
appearing in the resolution and substituting the date “October 28, 2018”.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
70-19 not expressly amended as stated above shall remain unchanged
and in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.

Resolution No. 128-19.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under the authority of Section 127.43 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Finance is authorized to enter into agreements for credit transfer services on behalf of the various departments of City government to enable payment of taxes, fees, fines and other charges through the use of a credit
card. Each person that pays a tax, fee, fine or other charge through the use of a credit card over the telephone,
electronically, or by internet may be assessed a fee equal in amount to the cost to the City to process the credit card payment over the telephone, electronically, or by internet; and
Whereas, the City wishes to provide credit transfer services to enable customers parking at the Willard Park
Garage, East Gateway Garage and the West Side Market Parking Lots to pay parking fees by credit card; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that under the authority of Section 127.43 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the firm of Payment Express, Inc., is selected upon nomination
of the Director of Finance, to provide payment gateway services for transaction data between SKIDATA Parking Financial Information System, the City and a bank to process credit card payments by customers parking at
the Willard Park Garage, East Gateway Garage and the West Side Market Parking Lots, for the Division of
Parking Facilities, Department of Public Works, for a period of one (1) year beginning upon execution of a contract, with a one-year option to renew exercisable by the Director of Finance.

596

April 24, 2019

The City Record

31

Be it further resolved that the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Department of Public Works, Division of
Parking Facilities, is authorized to enter into a professional services agreement with Payment Express, Inc. based
on its proposal dated March 26, 2019, to provide payment gateway services for transaction data between SKIDATA Parking Financial Information System, the City and the bank to process credit card payments by customers
parking at Willard Park Garage, East Gateway Garage and the West Side Market Parking Lots, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall include such additional provisions as the Director considers
necessary to benefit and protect the public interest. The fees for services to be performed under the contract
authorized shall not exceed $35,000.00 per year, and shall be determined as follows:

One Time Account Set Up Fee
Corporate Plan 2
Enterprise Plan 1
Software/Compliance Updates +
Hardware Maintenance, Support
(per connected SCR200 & IPP350
Terminal per month)

Monthly
Fee

Included
Transactions

Per Transaction
Overage Fee

$1,250
$2,000

25,000
50,000

$0.05
$0035

One
Time
Account Set
Up Fee
$100.00

$5

(a) Additional Fees; Additional users to the Payment Manager can be set up, but will incur a one off fee of
$30.00 plus tax. If PX needs to configure or change additional electronic merchant numbers on the Payment
Express Host, there is a fee of $100.00 plus tax per merchant account. $5.00 SAP fee per calendar month per connected card reader for SCR200 & IPP350 devices.
(b) Optional Risk Management Fees: Implementation of 1 to 5 applied rules will be charged at $100.00 plus
applicable taxes per calendar month. Implementation of 6 to 10 applied rules will be charged at $175.00 plus
applicable taxes per calendar month.
(c) Development Fee: (if requested by Customer): $125.00 plus applicable tax per hour per person for testing
and $175.00 plus applicable tax per hour per person for a Senior Developer.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Dumas, Davis, Acting Director Shaw, Directors Cox, Gordon, McGrath, Menesse, West,
McNamara, and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.

Resolution No. 129-19.
By Director Davis.
Whereas, under authority of Ordinance No. 1108-18, passed November
9, 2015 by the Cleveland City Council, and Resolution No. 282-16, adopted by this Board of Control on June
15, 2016, the City entered into City
Contract No. PS2016-258 with Kent
State University to provide general
training and development of employees in the categories of General/Soft
Skills, DPU Administration, Industry-Specific Training, and Job Specific Training, for a term not
exceeding two years, with two oneyear options to renew, in the aggregate
amount
of
$435,000.00
and
approved
various
subconsultants;
and
Whereas, Kent State University
and the Department of Public Utilities agreed for various reasons that
DeVore
Technologies
and
Great
Lakes Truck Driving School should
be removed as subconsultants from
City Contract No. PS2016-258; and
Whereas, by its letter dated February 22, 2019, Kent State University requested the City’s consent to
add two subconsultants and one second-tier subconsultant; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 28216, adopted June 15, 2016, is amended, consistent with Ordinance No.
1108-15 passed by the Cleveland City
Council on November 9, 2015, by
removing DeVore Technologies and
Great Lakes Truck Driving; and
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subconsultants by Kent State University under City Contract No.
PS2016-258 is approved:

Subconsultant

Work
Percentage

NH Learning Solutions
Corporations (non-certified)

Cuyahoga Community
College (non-certified)

TBD
0.00%

TBD
0.00%

Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultant by NH Learning Solutions Corporations, a subconsultant
to Kent State University, under City
Contract No. PS2016-258, is approved:
2nd Tier Subconsultant

Work
Percentage

Skyline Advanced Technology
Services (non-certified)
TBD
0.00%
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
282-16 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 130-19.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by Terrace Construction Company, Inc. under Contract
No. PI2019*4 for the public improvement of the East 85th and Chester
Parkway Area Sewer Project, for

597

the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities,
is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK

Burton Scot Contractors
Non-Certified
$ 72,200.00(0.00%)
Turnkey Tunneling, Inc
Non-Certified
$919,800.00(0.00%)
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 131-19.
By Director Davis.
Whereas, Resolution No. 482-18,
adopted by this Board of Control on
November 7, 2018, under authority of
Ordinance No. 422-18, passed on May
14, 2018 by the Cleveland City Council, authorized the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract
with Ward & Burk Tunneling, Inc.
for the public improvement of the
East 185th Street and Marcella Road
Relief Sewer Project in the aggregate amount of $14,810,620.00, and
approved
various
subcontractors;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 252-2019,
passed March 18, 2019, amended
Ordinance No. 422-18 to authorize the
acquisition of interests in real property and other agreements necessary to make the improvements
described in Ordinance No. 422-18, as
amended, and to include additional
funds/sub-funds
for
pavement

The City Record

32
restoration as part of the project;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 482-18, adopted by
this Board November 7, 2018, under
authority of Ordinance No. 422-18,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on May 14, 2018, is amended by inserting “, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
252-2019,
passed
March 18, 2019,” after “Ordinance No.
422-18, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on May 14, 2018”.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
482-18 not expressly amended by this
resolution shall remain unchanged
and in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 132-19.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of North Electric, Inc. for the
public improvement of the Security
Improvements
Project
Phase
II,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
692-13, passed May 20, 2013, upon a
gross price for the improvement in
the
aggregate
amount
of
$3,987,500.00, for the Department of
Public Utilities, received on January
25, 2019, is affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract for the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
North Electric, Inc. for the abovementioned public improvement is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Resolution No. 133-19.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Kokosing Industrial, Inc.
for the public improvement of Nottingham Improvements Project, all
items, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1406-15, passed November
30, 2015, upon a unit price for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $6,957,500.00, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, received on February 1,
2019, is affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract for the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Kokosing Industrial,
Inc. for the above-mentioned public
improvement is approved.
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Timeline Photography
(FBE)

Warren Roofing &
Insulation Co. (CSB)

Dependable Painting
Co., Inc. (FBE)

Builders Glass & Panel,
LTD (CSB)

Synergy, LLC (FBE)

Ozanne Construction
Company (MBE)

Silco Fire and Security
(Non-Certified)

$800,000.00
20.1%

$292,281.00
0.00%

Anthony Allega Cement
Contractor (Non-Certified)
$ 40,000.00
0.00%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.

$ 85,000.00
1.22%

TBD
TBD

Allied Technical Services
(Non-Certified)
$ 10,000.00
0.00%
M-A Building and
Maintenance Co.
(Non-Certified)

American Fire &
Sprinkler, LLC (FBE)

$285,000.00
7.15%

9,350.00
0.01%

Sampson Maintenance
Services (Non-Certified) $155,000.00
0.00%

$100,000.00
2.51%

$ 40,000.00
1.00%

$

Suburban Maintenance &
Construction, Inc.
(Non-Certified)
$ 32,780.00
0.00%

Petty Group, LLC (CSB) $ 21,300.00
0.53%
Mars Electric Company
(FBE)

April 24, 2019

$ 14,630.00
0.00%

$ 16,925.00
0.00%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 134-19.
By Director Kennedy.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received for the labor for the maintenance and repair of low/medium
electrical equipment, all items, for
the Department of Port Control,
received March 22, 2019, under the
authority of Section 181.101, Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
are rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.

598

Resolution No. 135-19.
By Director Kennedy.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received for the labor and materials
needed to repair or replace floors
and floor coverings, all items, for
the Department of Port Control,
received March 13, 2019, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 942-17,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on October 9, 2017, are
rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 136-19.
By Director Kennedy.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Snow Systems Nationwide, Inc.
for an estimated quantity for the
necessary items of labor and material necessary to provide snow and
ice removal services for the various
common-use gates items 2-5, at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, for the Department of Port
Control, for a period of one year
with two one (1) year options to
renew beginning with the date of
execution of the contract, received
on February 15, 2019, under the
authority of Section 181.101(a)(24)
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $105,790.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Port Control
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 137-19.
By Director Spronz.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 648-18 passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 4, 2018 and Resolution No. 42918 adopted by this Board of Control
on
October
10,
2018,
the
City,
through its Director of Capital Projects, entered into City Contract No.
PI2018*052 with Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, Inc. to perform the
architectural/engineering
services
necessary for the 2018 Recreation
Center Roofs Package Project; and
Whereas, the City requires additional architectural/engineering services to include the Michael Zone
Recreation Center in this package
under Contract No. PI2018*052 in the
amount of $37,500.00; and
Whereas, Wiss, Janney, Elstner
Associates, Inc. has proposed by its
March 8, 2019 letter to perform the
above-mentioned additional services;
now, therefore,

The City Record

April 24, 2019
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the City, through its Director of Capital Projects, is authorized to enter
into a first modification to Contract
No. PI2018-052 with Wiss, Janney,
Elstner Associates, Inc. for additional architectural/engineering services for an additional amount not
to exceed $37,500.00, thereby increasing the total compensation under
the contract to $209,500.00.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants for the services to be
performed under the above-authorized
first
modification
are
approved:
Van Auken Akins Architects LLC
CSB — $3,000.00 — 1.43%
Regency Construction Services, Inc.
CSB — $2,500.00 — 1.19%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 138-19.
By Director Spronz.
Whereas, under authority of Ordinance No. 1162-17, passed by Cleveland City Council on December 4,
2017, and 1104-18, passed by Council
on October 18, 2018, this Board of
Control, by its Resolution No. 472-18,
adopted October 31, 2018, approved
Terrace Construction Company Inc.
as lowest responsible bidder for the
public improvement of Fulton Road
(Clark Avenue to Lorain Avenue),
for the Division of Engineering and
Construction, Office of Capital Projects, in the aggregate amount of
$3,999,207.77; and
Whereas,
Terrace
Construction
wishes to use the services of an
additional subcontractor for the project; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 472-18, adopted by
this Board on October 31, 2018, is
amended by adding the following:

amount of $242,905.00 for the professional services necessary to supplement the regularly employed staff
of several departments of the City
in order to perform professional
environmental testing services to
complete the new Third District
Police Station, and a first modification thereto; and
Whereas,
the
City
desires
to
obtain additional services required
by the EPA VAP program; and
Whereas, Hull and Associates, Inc.
has proposed by its January 25, 2019
letter to perform the above mentioned additional services for a fee
not to exceed $9,394.00,; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the City, through its Director of Capital Projects, is authorized to enter
into a second modification to Contract No. CT 9501-PS2010-281 with
Hull and Associates, Inc. to provide
additional
environmental
testing
services necessary for the Third District Police Station, for an additional fee not to exceed $9,394.00,
thereby increasing the total compensation under the contract to
$252,299.00.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants for the services to be
performed under the above-authorized
second
modification
are
approved:.
Dempsey Surveying
CSB — $850.00 — 0.34%
Environmental Management
Specialists
CSB — $419.65 — 0.17%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.

Resolution No. 140-19.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bids received on February 7,
2019 for the public improvement of
Fire Station 23 Roof Replacement
and Garage Door Repairs, for the
Office of Capital Projects, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
734-14, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 9, 2014,
are rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.

Resolution No. 139-19.
By Director Spronz.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance Nos. 809-09 and 1241-12,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 8, 2009 and September 17, 2012, respectively, and
Board of Control Resolution No. 41813 adopted by this Board of Control
July 24, 2013, the City, through its
Directors of Economic Development
and Capital Projects entered into
City Contract No. CT 9501 PS2010-281
with Hull and Associates, Inc. in the

Resolution No. 141-19.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Ordinance No. 147-2019,
passed by the Cleveland City Council on March 4, 2019, the firm of SP
Plus Corporation is selected upon
nomination of the Director of Public
Works from a list of consultants or
firms
of
consultants
determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Works as the
firm to be employed by contract for

SUBCONTRACTOR

The Shelly Company

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE
$32,925.00
N/A

599

33
the purpose of managing the Gateway East Garage, respectively located at 650 Huron Road, for a period
of three years commencing August
1, 2019 and expiring July 31, 2022.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into a written contract
with SP Plus Corporation, based on
its February 22, 2019 proposal, for a
term not to exceed three years commencing August 1, 2019, which contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide for
professional management services
substantially as described in the
proposal for a fee of $81,516 for each
year of the term plus reimbursable
operating expenses, which totals an
estimated amount of $5,148,549.00 for
the three year term, and shall
include such additional provisions
as the Law Director considers necessary to benefit and protect the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors is approved:
NAME
DOLLAR AMOUNT

CERT STATUS
CSB AMOUNT

R-Cap Security
$360,000.00

CSB
21.0%

CCP Industries
$6,000.00

Non-certified

Quality Ribbons & Supplies
$7,500.00

CSB
0.4%

American Nat’l Skyline Non-certified
$6,500.00
Relmec Mechanical
$1,500.00

Non-certified

Tri-D Plumbing
$2,000.00

Non-certified

Lake Erie Electric
$10,000.00

Non-certified

Industrial Snowplowing
Non-certified
$10,500.00
Castle Heating & Air
$2,000.00
Dawnchem
$22,000.00
H20 Mobile Pressure
Washing
$9,000.00

CSB
0.1%
Non-certified

Non-certified

Link2Protect
$5,000.00

Non-certified

SimplexGrinnell
$4,000.00

Non-certified

Action Door
$5,000.00

CSB
0.3%

Thyssen Krupp Elevator
Non-certified
$26,000.00
Total CSB Participation Credit
$374,000.00
21.8%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.

34
Resolution No. 142-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 201-2019, passed April
1, 2019 by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized,
by and at the direction of the Board
of Control, to convey certain Cityowned property located at 1481 Addison
Road
Cleveland,
OH
44103,
Permanent Parcel No. 106-18-007 (the
“Property”), to the Board of Education of the Cleveland Metropolitan
School
District
(“CMSD”);
now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 201-2019 passed April 1,
2019 by Cleveland City Council, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is directed to convey the Property to the Board of Education of
the Cleveland Metropolitan School
District at no cost and for the mutual benefit of the City and CMSD.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 143-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 121-16-038, 121-16-049, 121-16-050,
121-16-059, and 121-18-147 located on
East 100th St. and East 97th St.; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development, to sell
Land Reutilization Program parcels
when certain specified conditions
have been met; and
Whereas, B.R. Knez Construction,
Inc. has proposed to the City to purchase and develop the parcels for
new residential construction; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with B.R. Knez Construction, Inc. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos.
121-16-038, 121-16-049, 121-16-050, 12116-059, and 121-18-147, according to

The City Record
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $200.00 each, which amount
is determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 144-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 130-20-126 located at 3467 E.
117th St.; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development, to sell
Land Reutilization Program parcels
when certain specified conditions
have been met; and
Whereas, Larry E. Bailey has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for a side yard
expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Larry E. Bailey
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 130-20-126 according
to
the
Land
Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 145-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the

600

April 24, 2019
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 135-19-069 located at 10705 Reno
Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development, to sell
Land Reutilization Program parcels
when certain specified conditions
have been met; and
Whereas, Michael E. Clark has
proposed to the City to purchase the
parcel for side yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Michael E. Clark
for the sale of Permanent Parcel No.
135-19-069, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 146-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 138-08-019 located at 4143 East
119th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development, to sell
Land Reutilization Program parcels
when certain specified conditions
have been met; and
Whereas, Rosa L. Thornton has
proposed to the City to purchase the
parcel for side yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:

April 24, 2019
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Rosa L. Thornton
for the sale of Permanent Parcel No.
138-08-019, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 147-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 105-31-067 located at 1062 East
77th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development, to sell
Land Reutilization Program parcels
when certain specified conditions
have been met; and
Whereas, Elkanard Smith, Jr. has
proposed to the City to purchase the
parcel for side yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Elkanard Smith,
Jr. for the sale of Permanent Parcel
No. 105-31-067, according to the Land

The City Record
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 148-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 106-15-081 located at 1684 East
70th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Most Rev. Nelson J.
Perez, Bishop of the Diocese of
Cleveland has proposed to the City
to purchase and develop the parcel
for church parking; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Most Rev. Nelson
J. Perez, Bishop of the Diocese of
Cleveland for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 10615-081 located at 1684 East 70th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1,500.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.

601

35
Resolution No. 149-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 107-23-021 located on Ashbury
Road; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, GCN Master Tenant,
LLC has proposed to the City to purchase and develop the parcel for
public green space; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with GCN Master Tenant, LLC for the sale and development
of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
107-23-021 located on Ashbury Road,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
Resolution No. 150-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 139-07-081 located at 3863 East
146th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and

The City Record

36
Whereas, Sherilyn Howard and
Otmous Howard have proposed to
the City to purchase and develop the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Sherilyn Howard
and Otmous Howard for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 139-07-081 located at 3863 East
146th Street, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Director
Shaw,
Directors
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath, Menesse, West, McNamara,
and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Ebersole.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination
as
soon
as
the
commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 6, 2019
9:30 A.M.
Calendar
No.
19-47:
6007
Ellen
Avenue (Ward 15)
Petru Stinea, owner, proposes to
erect an 11' x 20' one story aluminum carport/patio to an existing
single family residence in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 337.23(a) which states
that all parking spaces shall be
located on the rear half of the lot
(35 feet back).
2. Section 349.05(a) which states
that no parking shall be located
within 10 feet of any wall of a residential
building
that
contains
ground floor windows.
3. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that the required interior side
yard is 3 feet and the appellant is
proposing 2 feet 7 inches. (Filed
March 22, 2019)
Calendar No. 19-60: 6609 Wakefield
Avenue (Ward 15)
Elmhurst Homes, owner, proposes
to erect a 22' x 60' two story frame
single family residence with a 20' x
20' attached garage in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the required minimum lot area
of 4,800 square feet is required and
4,000 square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that the required interior side
yard is 6.35 feet and the appellant
is proposing 5 feet for the dwelling
and 3 feet for the cantilever wall.
3. Section 341.02(b) which states
that City Planning Approval is
required prior to the issuance of a
building permit. (Filed April 4,
2019)
Calendar No. 19-61: 6607 Wakefield
Avenue (Ward 15)
Elmhurst Homes, owner, proposes
to erect a 22' x 60' two story frame
single family residence with a 20' x
20' attached garage in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the required minimum lot area
of 4,800 square feet is required and
4,000 square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that the required interior side
yard is 6.35 feet and the appellant
is proposing 5 feet for the dwelling
and 3 feet for the cantilever wall.
3. Section 341.02(b) which states
that City Planning Approval is
required prior to the issuance of a
building permit. (Filed April 4,
2019)
Calendar No. 19-62: 603 Herschel
Court (Ward 3)
Brian Davine, owner, proposes to
construct a 3 1/2 story addition on

602

April 24, 2019
a 3,220 square foot lot in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the minimum lot area for a single family dwelling in a “B” Area
district is 4,800 square feet and the
lot area is 3,220 square feet.
2. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that in a Two-Family Residential District no interior side yard
on a lot occupied by a dwelling
house shall be less than 5 feet in
width for a corner lot, nor less than
3 feet in width for an interior lot,
nor shall the aggregate width of
side yards on the same premises be
less than 10 feet. However, the
width of any such interior side yard
shall in no case be less than ¼ the
height of the main building on the
premises. The required interior side
yard in this case is 10 feet and a 1
foot 6 inch side yard is proposed.
(Filed April 9, 2019)
Calendar No. 19-64: 2445 West 7th
Street (Ward 3)
Elias Karaboutis, owner, proposes
to create a 12' x 25' concrete parking space and new drive apron to
an existing single family residence
in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner appeals for relief
from the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 337.23(a) which states
that all parking spaces shall be
located on the rear half of the lot
at 60 feet.
2. Section 349.05(a) which states
that no parking space shall be located within 10 feet of any wall of a
residential building that contains
ground floor windows. (Filed April
10, 2019)
Calendar No. 19-65: 6904 Denison
Avenue (Ward 14)
Suhail Iwais, owner, proposes to
expand parking lot in a B3 SemiIndustry
District.
The
owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 349.07(a) which states
that Off-Street parking shall be
properly graded for drainage so that
all water is drained within the lot
providing such parking spaces are
surfaced with concrete, asphaltic
concrete, asphalt. The owner is
proposing a gravel parking area.
2. Section 352.10 which states that
a 6' wide landscape strip is required
along Denison Avenue at all areas
where the parking lot abuts a street;
partial landscaping is proposed.
3. Section 337.17 which states that
a parking lot arrangement of 90
degree parking spaces shall have an
aisle width of 20 minimum of 20'
and 14 feet isle width is proposed.
4. Section 349.15 which states that
3
bicycle
parking
spaces
are
required, none proposed.
5. Section 358.05 which states that
a fence in a Semi-Industry District
shall not exceed 4' high in the actual front yard and in actual side
street yard and shall be 50% open;
6’ high fence is proposed within
front yard setback. (Filed April 12,
2019)

April 24, 2019
POSTPONED FROM APRIL 8, 2019
Calendar No. 19-040: 3919 East 176th
Street (Ward 1)
Beatrice Price, owner, proposes to
establish use as a state licensed
Residential Facility in an A1 OneFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 325.571 which states that
a “Residential Facility” means a
publicly or privately operated home
or facility, licensed pursuant to
state law, that provides accommodations, supervision, and personal
care services to any of the following: (a) one (1) or two (2) unrelated persons with mental illness; (b)
or 1 or two(2) unrelated adults who
are receiving residential state supplement payments as defined in the
Ohio Revised Code; or (c) three (3)
to sixteen (16) unrelated adults.
2. Section 337.02(h) which states
that a residential facility, as defined
in Chapter 325 of the Zoning Code
for one (1) to five (5) unrelated persons is permitted in a One Family
Residential District provided it is
located not less than one thousand
(1,000) feet from another residential
facility. The proposed use is within
1,000 feet of two other residential
facilities, at 3963 Strandhill Road
(Wilson Adult Home) and 17511
Walden
Avenue
(Belcher
Adult
Family Home). (Filed March 8, 2019
- No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant due to a
scheduling conflict.
POSTPONED FROM
FEBRUARY 25, 2019
TO ALLOW FOR 4 BOARD
MEMBERS TO BE PRESENT
Calendar No. 18-239: 3547 East 49th
Street (Ward 12)
Number Three Grace LLC., owner,
proposes to establish use as a used
truck sales lot on two parcels (to be
consolidated) in a B3 Residence
Industry
District.
The
owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 342.02 which states that
the use of the property in Residence
Industry zoning district for second
hand truck sales lot is not permitted but is first permitted in SemiIndustry
zoning
district
per
345.03(c)(1).
2. Section 345.02(e) which states
that adequate off street parking of
trucks in is required to be screened
from the streets or not nearer than
fifty (50) feet to streets.
3. Section 345.02(f) which states
that in a Residence Industry District, entrance and exit to any building or premises are from a street
designated as a major thoroughfare
on the general plan adopted by the
City Planning Commission or, if the
premises in question does not abut
such street, than from any street
approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals if it finds the probable volume and type of traffic to such
premises will not change materially
the
existing
character
of
such
streets nor be detrimental to the
adjoining or adjacent residential
area. No such designation has been
made by the City Planning Commission, BZA review and approval
as noted is required.

The City Record

37

4. Section 347.11(b) which states
that all open areas of permanent use
open sales lots that are intended
either for display or for use as
vehicular areas, shall be surfaced
with
asphalt,
Portland
cement,
brick, paving block, or other dustless hard-surfaces, impervious all
weather material approval by the
Commissioner of Building and Housing. Gravel lot is proposed.
5. Section 347.11(c) which states
that all permanent use open sales
lots shall be graded for proper
drainage. Storm water runoff shall
be discharged into the City storm
sewers
or
in
another
manner
approved by the Director of Public
Service. Water shall not be permitted to drain across public sidewalks
or onto abutting lots. No grading or
drainage plan submitted, no drains
proposed on site plan.
6. Section 349.07(a) which states
that accessory off street parking
areas are required to be paved and
drained and a gravel parking area
proposed. No parking space striping
shown on plan.
7. Section 349.08 which states that
where five (5) or more accessory
off-street parking spaces are provided, and are located on a lot that
adjoins
a
building
containing
dwelling units, such parking spaces
shall be screened from a building
containing dwelling units, by an
opaque wall, a uniformly painted
fence of fire-resistant material or a
strip of land at least four (4) feet
wide and densely planted with
shrubs that form a dense screen
year
round.
No
screening
from
adjoining lot containing dwelling
unit(s) is proposed.
8. Section 349.05(a) which states
that no parking space shall be located within ten (10) feet of any wall
of a residential building or structure
if such wall contains a ground floor
opening designed to provide light or
ventilation for such building or
structure. (Filed October 19, 2018 Testimony Taken)
Third postponement made at the
request of the City to allow for time
to review the updated plans. Second
postponement made at the request
of the appellant to allow for more
time to update plans. First postponement made at the request of the
appellant to allow for time to
update the site plan to show screening, striping, paving and lot consolidation; and to allow for time for the
appellant to meet with City Planning.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 22, 2019
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 22,
2019 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board and;
The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

Waste Collection Ticket
Calendar No. 19-053: 502-504 East
123rd Street
Eloise Bolden, appeals under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland

603

Codified Ordinances and disputes
the City of Cleveland Waste Collection issuance of Civil Infraction
Ticket Number WC40082182.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 19-026: 15706 Parkgrove
Avenue
Yolanda F. Hamilton, owner, proposes to establish use as a state
licensed Residential Facility for 5
residents in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 19-050: 4855 Broadview
Road
R & R Salvage and Towing proposes to change use from restaurant
to office/towing service and motor
vehicle maintenance in a C1 Local
Retail Business District.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

None.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following cases were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 19-51: RD Management
12341 Chesterfield Avenue. Postponed to June 17, 2019.
Calendar No. 19-52: Thomas & Marianne Wright
6809 Wade Park/Public Works.
Postponed to July 22, 2019.
The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, April 15, 2019 and the decisions were adopted and approved on
Monday, April 22, 2019:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 19-021: 2481 Tremont
Street
2481 Tremont LLC, owner, proposes to erect a three story frame single
family
residence
with
an
attached garage on a 4,617 square
foot lot in a C1 Multi-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 19-024: 2033 Carter
Road
Lake Link LLC., owner, proposes
to erect a 3 story 2,967 square foot
single family residence with an
attached garage in a K3 Local
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 19-038: 2554 West 25th
Street
Columbo Enterprises, owner, proposes to construct a new 4 story 68
unit apartment building in a G2
Local Retail Business District and
an Urban Form Overlay District.
Calendar No. 19-042: 2055 Carter
Road
Lake Link, LLC., owner, proposes
to construct a 34' x 47' three story
single
family
residence
with
attached garage in a K3 Local
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 19-043: 2101 Carter
Road
Michael & Cheryl D'Amico, owner,
proposes to construct a 34' x 41' “L-

The City Record

38
shaped” three story single family
residence with attached garage in a
K3 Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 19-046: 14440 Puritas
Avenue
Forrest Urbank, owner, proposes
to establish use as restaurant and
catering in a C1 General Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 19-049: 4020 Whitman
Avenue
Developers
Specialty
Services,
LLC., owner, proposes to erect a 19'
x 18' one story frame single family
addition and a fence in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 17, 2019
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is given
for publication in the City Record:
* * *
Docket A-315-18.
RE: Appeal of Alfred Mathews,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit
Single-Family
Residence
Two
Story Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry
Veneer Property located on the
premises known as 10523 Norman
Avenue appeals from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated February 8, 2019 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for additional time, the violation notice was properly issued
based upon testimony presented, noting that the property is not properly secured, is open to the elements
and the appellant was not present;
the property is REMANDED to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-24-19.
RE: Appeal of Miloslav Cajan,
Owner of the Three Dwelling Units
Three-Family
Residence
Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 6008-10 Madison Avenue
appeals from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated January 4,
2019 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).

BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to GRANT the
appellant until November 1, 2019 to
complete abatement of all the violations of the property; the property
is REMANDED to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-25-19.
RE: Appeal of Elizabeth Brown,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit
Single-family Residence Two and
Half Story Frame Property, located
on the premises known as 3260 East
137th
Street
appeals
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated January 19, 2019 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to GRANT the
appellant until July 15, 2019 to complete abatement of all the violations
of the property; the property is
REMANDED to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-26-19.
RE: Appeal of West 48th Suites,
LLC, Owner of the R-2 ResidentialNon-transient;
apartments
(shared
egress) Two Story Wood/Frame/Siding/Masonry Veneer Property, located on the premises known as 1833-35
West 48th Street appeals from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated January 14, 2019 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to GRANT the
appellant until August 1, 2019 to
complete abatement of all the violations of the property; the property
is REMANDED to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-27-19.
RE: Appeal of West 48th Suites,
LLC, Owner of the R-2 ResidentialNon-transient; apartments (shared
egress)
Two
Story
Masonry
walls/Wood floors Property, located on the premises know as 1854

604

April 24, 2019
West 48th Street appeals from
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated January 14, 2019 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to GRANT the
appellant until August 1, 2019 to
complete abatement of all the violations of the property; the property
is REMANDED to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-28-19.
RE: Appeal of Emergent Properties
LLC,
Owner
of
the
Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
3407 East 134th Street appeals from
a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated January 9, 2019 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to GRANT the
appellant until July 1, 2019 to complete abatement of all the violations
of the property; the property is
REMANDED to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-29-19.
RE: Appeal of Angel Aikens, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two and One Half
Story Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry
Veneer Property, located on the
premises known as 1882 Colonnade
Road appeals from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated January
19, 2019 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to GRANT the
Appellant until June 15, 2019 to complete abatement of all violations of
the property and for both the appellant and inspector to mutually agree
upon a reinspection date; the property is REMANDED to the Department of Building & Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.

The City Record

April 24, 2019
Docket A-30-19.
RE: Appeal of Barry Sullivan,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises know as 4246 East 133rd
Street appeals from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — VACATE-EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated January
25, 2019 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
violation notice was properly issued,
noting that there are safety issues
in the building, the building is open
to the elements and the appellant
was not present; the property is
REMANDED to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-31-19.
RE:
Appeal
of
Shadi
Bishara,
Owner of the M Mercantile-Retail
Shops, Carry Out Food Shops One
Story Masonry Property, located on
the premises known as 4096 East
131st Street appeals from NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated January
30, 2019 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to GRANT the
appellant until June 1, 2019 to
obtain all permits and until November 1, 2019 to complete abatement of
violations of the property; the property is REMANDED to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-32-19.
RE: Appeal of Iris J. Franklin,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
Half Story Frame Property, located
on the premises known as 2206 East
93rd Street appeals from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — RENTAL REGISTRATION, dated January 14, 2019
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order to GRANT the Appellant until
June 15, 2019 to obtain all permits
and until November 1, 2019 to complete abatement of violations of the
property; the property is REMANDED to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion

so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-33-19.
RE: Appeal of Yaris, LLC, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 2317 East 101st Street
appeals from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
CONDEMNATION-MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated January 29,
2019 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for additional time, the violations notice was properly issued,
noting photographic evidence and
testimony; the property is REMANDED to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-34-19.
RE: Appeal of Spiro & Panglotis
Kefalos, Owner of the One-Story
Garage-Detached Wood Frame Property, located on the premises known
as 1611 Spring Road appeals from
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — CONDEMNATION-GARAGE, dated January 15, 2019 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for additional time, the violations notice was properly issued,
based upon testimony, noting that
the appellant is not present; the
property is REMANDED to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-38-19.
RE: Appeal of Martin D. Fano,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence One and Half
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 2173 West
36th Street appeals from a NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
CONDEMNATION-MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated
January 28, 2019 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to GRANT the

605

39
Appellant until September 1, 2019 to
complete abatement of all violations
of the property; the property is
REMANDED to the Department of
Building & Housing for supervision
and any required further action.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
Docket A-39-19.
RE: Appeal of Raymond Grant,
Owner of the R-2 Residential- NonTransient;
apartments
(Shared
Egress) Two Story Frame Property
located on the premises known as
11721 Union Avenue appeals from an
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated February 8, 2019; of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until November 1, 2019 to
complete abatement of all violations
of the property; the property is
REMANDED to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-270-18 — George M. Chelala/
Christopher M. Corrigan
A-10-19 — Autumn Lam
A-11-19 — Solar Action, LLC
A-12-19 — Gartland West Properties LLC
A-13-19 — Rose Marie Thomas
A-14-19 — Grafton Hill Holdings,
LLC
A-15-19 — Randy Gary
A-16-19 — Oliver Blocker
A-17-19 — Oliver Blocker
A-18-19 — Oliver Blocker
A-19-19 — Ray Sohrabi
A-21-19 — Marcelo Galarza
A-22-19 — Lisa Houchens
A-23-19 — Pera Vlku/Branka Vlku
A-54-19 — Gayle Cummings
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Minutes as presented by

The City Record

40
the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC):
April 3, 2019
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.
* * *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY of CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, MAY 3, 2019
File No. 46-19 — City Hall Water
Damage Repair, for the Division of
Architecture and Site Development,
Office of Capital Projects.

THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
OR
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH, AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS. ALL PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
MUST
BE
PURCHASED
DIRECTLY
FROM
THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES. BIDDERS MUST
BE ON THE PLAN-HOLDERS
LIST TO SUBMIT A BID OR
RECEIVE
ANY
ADDENDA.)
OUT-OF-AREA BIDDERS MAY
SEND
THEIR
NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS VIA
FED EX DELIVERY TO: CITY
OF CLEVELAND, DIVISION OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, 601
LAKESIDE AVENUE ROOM 128,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
INCLUDE IN YOUR REQUEST
YOUR
COMPANY’S
FED
EX
ACCOUNT NUMBER, FULL COMPANY NAME AND ADDRESS,
COMPANY
CONTACT/REPRESENTATIVE FULL NAME, CONTACT TELEPHONE NUMBER,
FACSIMILE TELEPHONE NUMBER AND EMAIL ADDRESS.
THE
FED
EX
DELIVERY
CHARGES
FOR
THE
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS
WILL
BE BILLED TO THE BIDDER’S
COMPANY FED EX ACCOUNT
NUMBER PROVIDED.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 2019 AT 10:00
A.M. AND 1:00 P.M. CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114. ROOM 517A.
QUESTIONS
REGARDING
THE
PURCHASE
OF
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS
CAN
BE
DIRECTED TO ROYCE GRIFFIN
AT (216) 664-2628.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12
O’CLOCK
NOON
(EASTERN
TIME).
April 17, 2019 and April 24, 2019
WEDNESDAY, MAY 15, 2019
File No. 45-19 — Labor and Materials to
Refurbish and Repair of Electric
Motors, Controls, Transformers,
Circuit Breakers Switchgears, and
Appurtenances, for the Division of
Wat e r , D e p a r t m e n t o f P u b l i c
Utilities as authorized by Ordinance
No. 696-18, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, September 17,
2018.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2019 AT 9:00
A.M. CARL B. STOKES PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114, 2ND FLOOR
ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM.

606

April 24, 2019
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12
O’CLOCK
NOON
(EASTERN
TIME).
April 17, 2019 and April 24, 2019
FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2019
File No. 47-19 — Terminal Boiler
Replacement, for the Division of
Airports, Department of Port
Control as authorized by Ordinance
No. 814-12, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 4, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) ONLY IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR MONEY ORDER (NO
COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH,
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE
PLANS. ALL PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
MUST
BE
PURCHASED
DIRECTLY
FROM
THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES. BIDDERS MUST
BE ON THE PLAN-HOLDERS
LIST TO SUBMIT A BID OR
RECEIVE
ANY
ADDENDA.)
OUT-OF-AREA BIDDERS MAY
SEND
THEIR
NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS VIA
FED EX DELIVERY TO: CITY
OF CLEVELAND, DIVISION OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, 601
LAKESIDE AVENUE ROOM 128,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
INCLUDE IN YOUR REQUEST
YOUR
COMPANY’S
FED
EX
ACCOUNT NUMBER, FULL COMPANY NAME AND ADDRESS,
COMPANY
CONTACT/REPRESENTATIVE FULL NAME, CONTACT TELEPHONE NUMBER,
FACSIMILE TELEPHONE NUMBER AND EMAIL ADDRESS.
THE
FED
EX
DELIVERY
CHARGES
FOR
THE
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS
WILL
BE BILLED TO THE BIDDER’S
COMPANY FED EX ACCOUNT
NUMBER PROVIDED.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, MONDAY, MAY 6, 2019 AT 10:30 A.M.
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT PLANNING AND ENGINEERING
BUILDING,
5301
WEST HANGAR ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135. MEETING
ROOM 6C-24C.
QUESTIONS
REGARDING
THE
PURCHASE
OF
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS
CAN
BE
DIRECTED TO ROYCE GRIFFIN
AT (216) 664-2628.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12
O’CLOCK
NOON
(EASTERN
TIME).
April 17, 2019 and April 24, 2019

April 24, 2019
FRIDAY, MAY 31, 2019
File
No.
48-19
—
Upgrading,
Enhancing, Refurbishing, and
Moving City Owned-Jet Bridges, for
the
Division
of
Airports,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 140918, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, December 3, 2018.
THERE WILL BE NO FEE FOR
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
ALL PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS MUST BE ACQUIRED
DIRECTLY FROM THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES. BIDDERS MUST BE ON
THE PLAN-HOLDERS LIST TO
SUBMIT A BID OR RECEIVE
ANY ADDENDA. OUT-OF-AREA
BIDDERS MAY SEND THEIR
NON-REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS VIA FED EX DELIVERY
TO CITY OF CLEVELAND DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES CLEVELAND CITY HALL
601 LAKESIDE AVENUE ROOM
128, CLEVELAND OHIO 44114.
INCLUDE IN YOUR REQUEST
YOUR
COMPANY’S
FED
EX
ACCOUNT NUMBER, FULL COMPANY NAME AND ADDRESS,
COMPANY
CONTACT/REPRESENTATIVE FULL NAME, CONTACT TELEPHONE NUMBER,
FACSIMILE TELEPHONE NUMBER AND EMAIL ADDRESS.
THE
FED
EX
DELIVERY
CHARGES
FOR
THE
PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS WILL BE
BILLED
TO
THE
BIDDER’S
COMPANY FED EX ACCOUNT
NUMBER PROVIDED.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, MAY 10, 2019 AT 10:30 A.M.
CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT CENTRAL
RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE POINTS ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
QUESTIONS
REGARDING
THE
PURCHASE
OF
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS
CAN
BE
DIRECTED TO ROYCE GRIFFIN
AT (216) 664-2628.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12
O’CLOCK
NOON
(EASTERN
TIME).
April 24, 2019 and May 1, 2019

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 483-2019.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
4576 West 130th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New C2
Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc, DBA Family Dollar, #10245, 4576 West 130th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permit No.
26312750350; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to

The City Record
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc, DBA Family Dollar, #10245, 4576 West 130th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permit No.
26312750350; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Res. No. 484-2019.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
16122 Lake Shore Boulevard.

607

41
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New C2
Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc, DBA Family Dollar, #6254, 16122 Lake Shore Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permit
No. 26312750345; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc, DBA Family Dollar, #6254, 16122 Lake Shore Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permit
No. 26312750345; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

42
Res. No. 485-2019.
By Council Member B. Jones.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of location of a
C2 Liquor Permit to 1701 East 12th
Street, Street, Suites ZMR 14 and
ZMR 15.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
transfer of location of a C2 Liquor
Permit from Dolgen Midwest, LLC,
DBA Dollar General Store, #13208,
5133 Superior Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44103, Permit No. 22348151290 to
Dolgen Midwest LLC, DBA Dollar
General Store, #13208, 1701 East 12th
Street, Suites ZMR 14 and ZMR 15,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permit No.
22348151291; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of location of a C2 Liquor Permit
from Dolgen Midwest, LLC, DBA
Dollar General Store, #13208, 5133
Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permit No. 22348151290 to Dolgen Midwest LLC, DBA Dollar General Store, #13208, 1701 East 12th
Street, Suites ZMR 14 and ZMR 15,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permit No.
22348151291, and requests the Superintendent of the Division of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to

The City Record
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Res. No. 486-2019.
By Council Member B. Jones.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New D5A
Liquor
Permit
at
6955
Euclid
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 150-19 objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New D5A Liquor Permit to American Hospitality Management, Inc.,
DBA Tru By Hilton, 6955 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permit No. 0163020-0005 by Resolution
No. 150-19 adopted by the Council on
January 28, 2019; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
New D5A Liquor Permit to American
Hospitality Management, Inc., DBA
Tru By Hilton, 6955 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permit No.
0163020-0005, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 150-19, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 812-18.
By Council Members Zone, Kelley,
and
Griffin
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of one solid waste incinerator, including labor and materials
for
installation,
and
for
maintenance, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety,
for a period up to two years.

608

April 24, 2019
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
each or all of the following items:
one solid waste incinerator, including labor and materials for installation, and for maintenance for a
period up to two years, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a gross
price , for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety.
Section 2. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Safety may sign all documents that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-6002-6487,
Request No. RQS 6001, RL 2018-63.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 76-2019.
By Council Members Hairston,
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio to construct the Interstate 90 / Martin Luther King Jr.,
Drive interchange improvement; and
authorizing agreements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is
given to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio (“the
State”) to construct the following
improvement under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the
State: enhance the Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive underpass connection
to Rockefeller Park with the north
side of Gordon Park and Dike 14
nature preserve in the City of Cleveland, PID 103821 (the “Improvement”).

April 24, 2019
Section 2. That the City gives its
consent to the Improvement and its
administration by the State. The
City agrees to assume and contribute the entire cost and expense
of the Improvement less the amount
of Federal-aid funds set aside by the
State for the financing of the
Improvement from funds allocated
by the Federal Highway Administration, United States Department of
Transportation. The City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any item, included in the
construction contracts at the request
of the City, which are determined by
the Director of Transportation to be
ineligible or unnecessary for the
Improvement.
Section 3. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary rightof-way
required
for
the
Improvement. The City also understands
that
right-of-way
costs
include eligible utility costs. The
City agrees to be responsible for all
utility accommodation, relocation,
and reimbursement and agrees that
all such accommodations, relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall
comply with the current provisions
of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT Utilities Manual.
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable State and Federal law,
including, but not limited to Title
23, U.S.C. Section 116; (2) provide
ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the
Improvement;
(3)
maintain
the
right-of-way, keeping it free of
obstructions; and (4) hold said rightof-way inviolate for public highway
purposes.
Section
5.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 6. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
enter into any agreements necessary
to implement the Improvement.
Section 7. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
transmit to the State three (3) certified copies of this ordinance immediately on its taking effect, and it
shall become the basis for proceeding with the Improvement.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 199-2019.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to

The City Record
enter into one or more contracts
with Case Western Reserve University to provide a youth summer
sports, nutrition, health, and life
skills development program for 2019
under the National Youth Sports
Program sponsored by Case Western
Reserve University.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Case Western Reserve University
(“CWRU”) for the public purpose of
providing Cleveland youths with a
summer sports, nutrition, health,
and life skills development program
for 2019 under the National Youth
Sports
Program
sponsored
by
CWRU.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall not exceed
$150,000.00 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 01-7004-6380, RQS 7004, RL
2019-5.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 254-2019.
By Council Members Hairston,
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 559.247 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 407-15,
passed June 1, 2015, relating to designating the Pakistani Garden at
1200 Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 559.247 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 407-15, passed June 1, 2015,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 559.247 Pakistani Garden
Beginning in the westerly line of
Martin Luther King Jr. Dr. (formerly Liberty Boulevard), at the southeasterly corner of the India Garden
(Section 559.232);
Thence southeasterly, along said
westerly line of Martin Luther King
Jr. Dr., approximately 272.68 feet to
a point, and the principle place of
beginning;
Thence southwesterly, along a
line parallel to the southeasterly

609

43
line of said India Garden, approximately 141.55 feet to a point in the
easterly line of Doan Brook;
Thence southeasterly, along said
easterly line of Doan Brook, approximately 474.54 feet, to a point in the
aforementioned
westerly
line
of
Martin Luther King Jr. Dr.;
Thence northwesterly, along said
westerly line of Martin Luther King
Jr. Dr., approximately 524.99 feet, to
the principle place of beginning,
containing 36,758 sq. ft., 0.8438 acres,
be the same more or less but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That existing Section
559.247 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 407-15, passed June 1,
2015, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 255-2019.
By Council Members Zone, Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute a deed of easement granting to The Board of Park Commissioners
of
the
Cleveland
Metropolitan Park District certain
easement rights in property located
near West 53rd Street; declaring
that the easement rights granted
are not needed for public use; and
authorizing the director to enter
into one or more agreements with
the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and maintain an all-purpose
trail connecting the Red Line Greenway to the Zone Recreation Center
trail.
Whereas, The Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District (“Cleveland
Metroparks”) has received funding
to construct and maintain an all-purpose trail called the Red Line Greenway which includes a connection to
the Zone Recreation Center trail
(the “Greenway Trail Connector”) as
well as four other trail projects in
the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, in order to construct the
Greenway Trail Connector, it is necessary
that
the
Cleveland
Metroparks obtain a permanent, nonexclusive
easement
on
property
located near West 53rd Street; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are not needed for the
City’s public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions

44
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, it
is found and determined that the
easement interest in the following
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
48, also being part of land described
in deed to the City of Cleveland,
recorded in Volume 87-5861, Page 42,
and further described as follows:
Commencing at the northeasterly
corner of said City of Cleveland
land, being at the intersection of the
southerly line of Reimer Ave (40
feet wide) with the westerly line of
West 53rd Street (60 feet wide);
Thence South 01° 18' 00" East, 96.57
feet along the easterly line of said
City of Cleveland land and the westerly line of said West 53rd Street to
the Point of Beginning;
1) Thence South 01° 18' 00" East,
24.39 feet along the easterly line of
said City of Cleveland land and the
westerly line of said West 53rd
Street to the southeasterly corner of
said City of Cleveland land;
2) Thence South 73° 43' 50" West,
129.21 feet along the southerly line
of said City of Cleveland land;
3) Thence North 50° 43' 34" West,
16.61 feet;
4) Thence North 28° 02' 26" West,
54.63 feet;
5) Thence North 31° 08' 26" East,
29.95 feet;
6) Thence South 44° 03' 13" East,
35.10 feet;
7) Thence South 27° 47' 35" East,
45.21 feet;
8) Thence South 81° 31' 33" East,
21.75 feet to an existing back of
curb;
9) Thence North 76° 53' 41" East,
20.15 feet along an existing back of
curb to a proposed edge of concrete
sidewalk;
10) Thence North 13° 00' 44"
West, 4.89 feet along a proposed
edge of concrete sidewalk;
11) Thence North 03° 29' 16" East,
2.22 feet along a proposed edge of
concrete sidewalk;
12) Thence North 52° 44' 56" East,
2.21 feet along a proposed edge of
concrete sidewalk;
13) Thence North 77° 54' 19" East,
17.26 feet along a proposed edge of
concrete sidewalk;
14) Thence North 34° 49' 54" East,
30.61 feet;
15) Thence North 83° 03' 39" East,
24.94 feet to the Point of Beginning
and containing 4,039 square feet
(0.0927 acres.)
This description was prepared
from record information and from a
field survey completed in August
2018 by Jarrod R. Schnell, PS#8623,
for Cleveland Metroparks.
The bearings are based on State
Plane Coordinate Grid, Ohio North
1983 (2011), derived from GPS observations. References to recorded documents are those of the Cuyahoga
County Recorder’s Office.
Section 2. That, by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described easement interest to

The City Record
Cleveland Metroparks subject to any
conditions stated in this ordinance.
The consideration to be paid for the
properties shall not exceed $1.00 and
other valuable consideration, which
is determined to be fair market
value.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to construct
and maintain an all-purpose trail
connecting the Red Line Greenway
to the Zone Recreation Center trail.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easements shall be perpetual; that
the easements shall not be assignable without the consent of the Director of Public Works; that the
easements shall require that Cleveland Metroparks provide reasonable
insurance or self-insurance; maintain
any
Cleveland
Metroparks
improvements located within the
easements; and pay any applicable
taxes and assessments; and that the
easements shall contain such other
terms and conditions that the Director of Law determines to be necessary to protect and benefit the City.
Section 5. That the conveyances
referenced above shall be made by
official deeds of easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Works
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The Directors of Public Works and
Law are authorized to execute any
other documents, including without
limitation, contracts for right of
entry, as may be necessary to effect
this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and maintain an all purpose
trail connecting the Red Line Greenway to the Zone Recreation Center
trail.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 319-2019.
By Council Members Hairston,
Keane and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more agreements with the Wyland Foundation,
to accept the gift of restoration of
the Wyland Whale Wall mural entitled “Song of Whales” located on the
Cleveland Public Power Building at
5251 North Marginal Road.
Whereas, the Wyland Foundation
has indicated a desire to make a
gift of restoration of the Wyland
Whale Wall mural entitled “Song of
Whales” located on the Cleveland
Public Power Building at 5251 North

610

April 24, 2019
Marginal Road, valued in the estimated amount of $44,000, to the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more agreements
with the Wyland Foundation to
accept the gift of restoration of the
Wyland Whale Wall mural entitled
“Song of Whales” located on the
Cleveland Public Power Building at
5251 North Marginal Road, valued in
the estimated amount of $44,000, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities. The agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain additional terms and
conditions as are required to protect
the interests of the City.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 328-2019.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an agreement with the
State of Ohio, Department of Transportation to maintain, repair, and
plow
the
Jennings
Freeway
in
exchange for road salt, for a period
of two years, with three one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the State of
Ohio, Department of Transportation,
for the State to maintain, repair, and
plow
the
Jennings
Freeway
in
exchange for road salt, for a period
of two years, with three one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Works. (RQS
7016, RLA 2019-19)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

April 24, 2019

The City Record

45

Ord. No. 339-2019.
By Council Member McCormack.
An ordinance changing the Use, Height and Area Districts of parcels along West 25th Street, Lorain Avenue
and Gehring Avenue as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2592); subjecting such parcels to Section 333.02 of the Cleveland Zoning Code; and attaching the Approved Site Development Plan.
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of West 25th Street and Lorain Avenue;
Thence southerly along the centerline of West 25th Street to its intersection with the with the centerline of
Gehring Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Eureka Court;
Thence easterly along said centerline to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of a easterly line of
a parcel of land conveyed to West Side Market by deed dated November 4, 1977 and recorded in Cuyahoga County Auditor File Number V77146390801and also known as Cuyahoga County Permanent Parcel Number 007-11-024;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with a northerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with a westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with a northerly line thereof;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and its prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Gehring
Avenue;
Thence northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline to the place of origin;
And as identified on the attached map shall be changed to a ‘Limited Retail District’ District, a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘4’ Height District and shall be subject to the regulations of Section 333.02 of the Cleveland Zoning
Code and the Approved Site Development Plan attached to this Ordinance;
Section 2. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of Ghering Avenue and Lorain Avenue;
Thence westerly along Lorain Avenue to its intersection with Lorain Avenue;
And;
Beginning at the intersection of Lorain Avenue and West 25th Street;
Thence southeasterly along West 25th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Gehring Avenue;
And as identified on the attached map shall be established as ‘Urban Form Overlay Districts’;
Section 3.That the lands described in Section 1 of this Ordinance shall, in perpetuity, be exempted from the
requirements set forth in the Chapter 349.01 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances or any subsequent regulations
that regulate the number of parking spaces required for automobiles.
Section 4. In accordance with Section 333.02 of the Cleveland Zoning Code, within a period of six (6) months
from the effective date of this zoning map amendment or within such extension period approved by the Planning
Commission, the only allowable building permits issued for the property described in Section 1 of this legislation
shall be for the construction of the Development as presented in the attached Approved Site Development Plan.
Section 5. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2592, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk
of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for
this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 6. In accordance with Section 333.02 of the Cleveland Zoning Code, if a building permit for such Development is not issued within six (6) months from the effective date of this zoning map amendment or within such
extension period approved by the Planning Commission, this zoning map amendment approval shall be void and
the zoning shall revert to the classifications that existed prior to the approval of this zoning map amendment.
Section 7. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.
Zoning Change Map

611

The City Record

46
Approved Site Development Plan

612

April 24, 2019

April 24, 2019

The City Record

613

47

48

The City Record

614

April 24, 2019

April 24, 2019

The City Record

615

49

50

The City Record

616

April 24, 2019

April 24, 2019

The City Record

617

51

52

The City Record

618

April 24, 2019

April 24, 2019

The City Record

619

53

54

The City Record

620

April 24, 2019

April 24, 2019

The City Record

621

55

56

The City Record

622

April 24, 2019

April 24, 2019

The City Record

Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective May 15, 2019.

623

57

58
Ord. No. 377-2019.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of duct line,
street lighting bases and pull boxes,
labor and materials necessary to
install, repair, replace or maintain
the duct line, street lighting bases
and pull boxes, and other related
incidentals, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period up
to two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which
requires
additional
legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for a period up to two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, of the necessary items of
duct line, street lighting bases and
pull boxes, labor and materials to
install, repair, replace or maintain
the duct line, street lighting bases
and pull boxes, and other related
incidentals,
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities. The
first of the one-year options to
renew may not be exercised without
additional legislative authority. If
such additional legislative authority
is granted and the first of the oneyear options to renew is exercised,
then the second of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Public Utilities without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RQN 2004,
RL 2019-6)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Utilities may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or

The City Record
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 387-2019.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Johnson and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
employ one or more professional
consultants to develop and provide
programs and activities for youth
and their families, including summer programs at City recreation centers, to serve as tools to prevent
violence, develop skills and knowledge to overcome challenges associated with trauma and toxic stress,
and to create opportunities for youth
and their families to live quality
lives, for a period of one year, with
a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to develop and provide programs
and activities for youth and their
families,
including
summer
programs at City recreation centers, to
serve as tools to prevent violence,
develop skills and knowledge to
overcome challenges associated with
trauma and toxic stress, and to create opportunities for youth and their
families to live quality lives, for a
period of one year, with a one-year
option to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Finance.
The selection of the consultant or
consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination
of
the
Director
of
Finance from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Finance for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from funds approved by the
Director of Finance, Request No.
RQS 1501, RLA 2019-22.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

624

April 24, 2019
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 388-2019.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Keane and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Youth Opportunities Unlimited
for the administration, implementation, and management of the Cleveland Summer Youth Employment
Program and authorizing one or
more contracts with public agencies
or communities to implement the
Summer Youth Employment Program, for a period of one year, with
a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Youth Opportunities Unlimited
for the administration, implementation, and management of the Cleveland Summer Youth Employment
Program, which include various projects for a period of one year, with
a one-year option to renew exercisable by the Director of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with public agencies or communities
to implement elements of the Summer Youth Employment Program for
a period of one year, with one option
to renew for an additional one year
period, exercisable by the Director
of Public Utilities.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001
and 54 SF 001, Request No. RQS
2002, RL 2019-12.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 389-2019.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Johnson and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into contract with the Northeast Ohio Muni Football League aka
Cleveland Municipal Football Association dba Cleveland Muny Football League to conduct a city-wide
football program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

April 24, 2019
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into contract with the Northeast
Ohio Muni Football League aka
Cleveland Municipal Football Association dba Cleveland Muny Football League to conduct a city-wide
football program and to pay participant entry fees, in an amount not
to exceed $80,084, payable from
Fund No. 01-7004-6380, Request No.
RQS 7004, RL 2019-2.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 390-2019.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Johnson and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an agreement with the
Neighborhood Leadership Institute
to
implement
educational,
recreational, and cultural programs in
various school buildings and recreation centers during evening hours,
provide leadership training, and
supervise the summer tennis program.
Whereas, based on recommendations made by the Cleveland Summit
on Education, certain pilot programs
were created; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Neighborhood Leadership Institute to implement educational, recreational, and
cultural programs in various school
buildings and recreation centers
during evening hours, provide leadership training, and supervise the
summer
tennis
program,
in
an
amount not to exceed $289,511.00,
payable from Fund Nos. 01-7004-6380,
RQS 7004, RL 2019-3.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 391-2019.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Johnson and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more contracts
with City Year, Inc. to perform community service work and to collaborate
with
various
non-profit
agencies.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with City
Year, Inc. to perform community service work and to collaborate with
non-profit agencies, in an amount
not to exceed $75,000.00 payable
from Fund No. 01-7004-6380, RQS
7004, RL 2019-6.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 402-2019.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to employ one or more
professional consultants to provide
Decent, Safe and Sanitary Inspections, for a period of two years, with
up to four six-month options to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Community Development.
Whereas, HUD regulations under
the HOME Investment Partnership
Program require that units rehabilitated with Federal funds be maintained in Decent, Safe and Sanitary
(“DSS”) condition for the duration of
the
HOME
Affordability
Period,
which term differs by project; and
HUD regulations under the Uniform
Relocation Act require that units be
certified as DSS before tenants are
temporarily relocated or permanently displaced to those units as a
result of a federally-funded project;
and
Whereas,
Community
Development staff do annual site visits at
each
project
rehabilitated
using
HOME dollars throughout its Affordability Period; and
Whereas,
the
annual
review
includes an inspection by a DSS
Inspector to examine the units and
issue a report; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide DSS Inspections of tenant units
rehabilitated using HOME dollars
throughout its Affordability Period
in compliance with HUD regulations
and DSS inspections of units proposed for occupancy by tenants

625

59
being temporarily relocated or permanently displaced as a result of a
federally-funded project, for a period of two years, with up to four sixmonth options to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Community Development.
The selection of the consultant or
consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Community Development from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Community Development for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or
contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Community Development, and certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 14 SF 042,
Request No. RQS 8006, RL 2019-27.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 403-2019.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to terminate HOME
Loan No. 57636 with Harvard Elderly Limited Partnership and to forgive
the
principal
balance
and
interest due on the loan and to
release the mortgage and cancel the
promissory note.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 91898, passed June 15, 1998 and Ordinance No. 751-2000, passed June 19,
2000, this Council authorized the
Director of Community Development
to enter into agreements with various housing development entities, or
their designees, to implement the
Housing Trust Fund Program; and
Whereas, one of the contracts
entered into under those ordinances
was HOME Loan Contract No. 57636
in the amount of $500,000 to Harvard
Elderly Limited Partnership (“Harvard Elderly”), for affordable housing for seniors; and
Whereas, Harvard Elderly does
not have sufficient reserves or operating cash flow to meet its obligations and has significant capital
repairs that are immediate to the
property, and taking into account
the services that Harvard Elderly
provides
to
the
City,
including
affordable housing for seniors, the
City agrees to forgive the remaining
debt on Contract No. 57636 in the
principal amount of $500,000 and the
accrued interest currently in the
approximate amount of $64,935, and
to release the mortgage, and cancel
the Promissory Note; and

60
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to terminate Contract No. 57636
with Harvard Elderly and to forgive
the balance of the payments due
under the contract in the amount of
$500,000 plus accrued interest currently in the approximate amount of
$64,935, to release the mortgage, and
to cancel the promissory note.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 405-2019.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more agreements
with Cuyahoga County for administration and operation of the Family
Justice Center; and to pay the County for its share of the costs, for a
period up to four years.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Department of Public Safety, the
Cleveland
Municipal
Court
and
Cuyahoga County Public Safety &
Justice Services desire to cooperate
in providing a Family Justice Center that will serve victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, child
abuse, and elder abuse; and
Whereas, the model for the Family Justice Center is designed to
address pitfalls commonly faced by
victims, including an often fragmented assistance system, and services offered at the Family Justice
Center will bridge the gap by offering a more rational, collaborative,
victim-centered
service
delivery
approach with increased data and
information
sharing
capabilities;
and
Whereas, the City and Cuyahoga
County will share in the cost of
operating the Family Justice Center;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
Cuyahoga County for administration
and operation of the Family Justice
Center, for a period up to four years.
That the agreement shall provide,
among other things, that the City
shall pay the County the following
amounts for its share of the costs
associated with the operation of the
Family
Justice
Center,
which
amounts do not include the additional charge for utilities and building
maintenance
estimated
at

The City Record
$14,100 annually: $168,750 for the
first year of the lease; $175,500 for
the
second
year
of
the
lease;
$182,250, for the third year of the
lease; and $189,000 for the fourth
year of the lease.
Section 2. That the agreement
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 3. That the costs for the
first year of the lease term shall be
paid from Fund No. 01-6001-6360 and
the costs for each remaining annual payment of lease are subject to
annual appropriation. (RQS 6001,
RLA 2019-23)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 406-2019.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2017-188
with National Urban Fellows to support the placement of a fellow in the
class of 2020 within the Department
of Public Utilities under the program.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 539-17, passed June 5,
2017, the Director of Public Utilities
entered into Contract No. CT 2002 PS
2017-188 with National Urban Fellows to support the placement of a
fellow in the class of 2018 and 2019
within the Department of Public
Utilities under the program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 539-17
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2017-188
with National Urban Fellows to support the placement of a fellow in the
class of 2020 within the Department
of Public Utilities under the program at a cost not to exceed $70,000,
payable from Fund No. 52 SF 001.
This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 539-17 to exercise
this option. (RQS 2002, RL 2019-23)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

626

April 24, 2019
Ord. No. 442-2019.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing payment of membership dues of
the City of Cleveland in Global
Cleveland for 2019.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to cause payment of membership dues of the
City of Cleveland in the amount of
$125,000 to be made to Global Cleveland for 2019, from funds approved
by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 448-2019.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into one or more internship agreements with various individuals to
provide assistance to the Office of
the Clerk and the members of Cleveland City Council in any and all
matters related to official Council
business.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into one or
more internship agreements with
various individuals to provide assistance to the Office of the Clerk and
the members of Cleveland City
Council in any and all matters related to official Council business, as
may be directed by the Clerk or her
designees. The agreements may be
for terms of any number of weeks
starting on or after May 1, 2019 and
ending on or before May 1, 2020. The
individuals shall be paid on an
hourly basis in an amount up to and
not to exceed $15.00 per hour and
shall be certified from fund number
01, subfund 001, department 0101,
object 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

April 24, 2019
Ord. No. 450-2019.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Ordinance 1419-18, passed April 1,
2019 and to amend Section 171.57 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
1492-05,
passed
August 3, 2005, relating to military
service leave of absence.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 141918, passed April 1, 2019, is repealed.
Section 2. That Section 171.57 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
1492-05,
passed
August 3, 2005, is amended to read
as follows:
Section 171.57 Military Service
Leave of Absence; Benefits During
Service
(a) All officers and employees of
the City who are members of the
Ohio organized militia or members
of other reserve components of the
armed forces of the United States,
including the Ohio national guard,
are entitled to a leave of absence
from their respective positions without loss of pay for the time they are
performing service in the uniformed
services, for periods of up to one
month, for each year in which they
are performing service in the uniformed services.
(b) As used in this section:
(1) “Year” means calendar year.
(2) “Month” means twenty-two
eight-hour work days or one hundred seventy-six hours, or for a public
safety
employee,
seventeen
twenty-four-hour days or four hundred eight hours, within one year.
(3) “Officer and employee” means
any person holding a position in
employment with the City that
requires working a regular schedule
of twenty-six consecutive biweekly
pay periods, or any other regular
schedule of comparable consecutive
pay periods, which is not limited to
a specific season or duration. “Officer and employee” does not include
student help; intermittent, seasonal,
or external interim employees; or
individuals covered by personal services contracts.
(4) “Service in the uniformed services” means the performance of
duty, on a voluntary or involuntary
basis, in a uniformed service, under
competent authority, and includes
active duty, active duty for training,
initial active duty for training, inactive duty for training, full-time
national guard duty, and performance of duty or training by a member of the Ohio organized militia
pursuant to Chapter 5923 of the
Revised Code. “Service in the uniformed services” includes also the
period of time for which a person is
absent from a position of public or
private employment for the purpose
of an examination to determine the
fitness of the person to perform any
duty described in this division.
(5) “Uniformed services” means
the armed forces, the Ohio organized

The City Record
militia when engaged in active duty
for training, inactive duty training,
or full-time national guard duty, the
commissioned corps of the public
health service, and any other category of persons designated by the
president of the United States in
time of war or emergency.
(6)
“Public
safety
employee”
means a City employee who is
employed as a fire fighter or emergency medical technician.
(c) Except as otherwise provided
in division (d) of this section, any
officer or employee of the City, who
is entitled to the leave provided
under division (a) of this section,
and who is called or ordered to the
uniformed services for longer than
a month, for each year in which the
employee performed service in the
uniformed services, because of an
executive order issued by the president of the United States, because of
an act of congress, or because of an
order to perform duty issued by the
governor pursuant to section 5919.29
of the Revised Code is entitled, during the period designated in the
order or act, to a leave of absence
and to be paid, during each monthly pay period of that leave of
absence:
The difference between the officer’s or employee’s gross monthly
wage or salary as an officer or
employee and the sum of the officer’s or employee’s gross uniformed
pay and allowances received that
month.
(d) No officer or employee shall
receive payments under division (c)
of this section if the sum of the officer’s or employee’s gross uniformed
pay and allowances received in a
pay period exceeds the officer’s or
employee’s gross wage or salary as
an officer or employee for that period or if the officer or employee is
receiving pay under division (a) of
this section.
(e) Each officer or employee who
is entitled to leave provided under
division (a) of this section shall
submit the published order authorizing the call or order to the uniformed
services
or
a
written
statement from the appropriate military commander authorizing that
service, prior to being credited with
that leave.
(f) Any officer or employee whose
employment is governed by a collective bargaining agreement with
provision for the performance of service in the uniformed services shall
abide by the terms of that collective
bargaining agreement with respect
to the performance of that service,
except that no collective bargaining
agreement may afford fewer rights
and benefits than are conferred
under this section.
(g) For purposes of hospitalization, life insurance, vacation leave,
sick leave and longevity pay, a person on a military leave of absence
shall be deemed to be in the service
of the City.
Section 3. That existing Section
171.57 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1492-05, passed
August 3, 2005 is repealed.
Section 4. That the provisions of
this section shall be in full force
and effect from the effective date
and forward of this ordinance.

627

61
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 480-2019.
By Council Member Santana.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Public Works
and Finance to enter into one or
more contractual agreements with
the Cleveland Metropolitan School
District
to
conduct
educational,
recreational and extracurricular programming through the use of Ward
14 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Public Works and Finance to enter
into one or more contractual agreements effective April 29, 2019 with
the Cleveland Metropolitan School
District
to
conduct
educational,
recreational and extracurricular programming for the public purpose of
providing after-school educational
and recreational activities through
the use of Ward 14 Casino Revenue
Funds
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $3,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Ord. No. 481-2019.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Aging to enter into an agreement
with Court Community Service for
the Senior Lawn Care & Snow
Removal Program through the use
of Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record

62
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Aging be authorized
to enter into an agreement with
Court Community Service for the
Senior Lawn Care & Snow Removal
Program for the public purpose of
assisting senior citizens residing in
the city of Cleveland with grass cutting, lawn maintenance care and
snow removal through the use of
Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

April 24, 2019

measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 15, 2019.
Effective April 17, 2019.

Development, Planning and Sustainability
Committee:
Present:
Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice
Chair; Bishop, Hairston, B. Jones,
Keane, McCormack.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Safety Committee: Present: Zone,
Chair; Polensek, Vice Chair; Griffin,
Kazy, B. Jones, J. Jones. Authorized
Absence: Santana.

Monday, April 22, 2019
2:00 p.m.

Thursday, April 25, 2019
1:00 p.m.

Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Griffin, Keane, McCormack.
Authorized
Absence:
Zone,
Vice
Chair; Conwell.

Lake Erie Water Quality Sub-Committee:
Present:
Kelley,
Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
McCormack,
Zone. Authorized Absence: Cleveland, Griffin, Hairston.

Tuesday, April 23, 2019
9:30 a.m.

Wednesday, April 24, 2019
10:00 a.m.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Aging to enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior Lawn Care & Snow Removal Program through the use
of Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 481-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

Agreements
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into one or more internship agreements with various
individuals to provide assistance to the Office of the Clerk and the members of Cleveland
City Council in any and all matters related to official Council business. (O 448-2019) . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more agreements with Cuyahoga
County for administration and operation of the Family Justice Center; and to pay the
County for its share of the costs, for a period up to four years. (O 405-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more mutual aid agreements with
other political subdivisions in the State of Ohio for additional police protection, fire, and
emergency medical services for aid and assistance in connection with the Major League
Baseball Association 2019 All Star Game being held in Cleveland on July 9, 2019, along with
associated events and activities on days before and after the day of the Game. (O 511-2019) .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into an agreement with the Neighborhood
Leadership Institute to implement educational, recreational, and cultural programs in
various school buildings and recreation centers during evening hours, provide leadership
training, and supervise the summer tennis program. (O 390-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into an agreement with the State of Ohio,
Department of Transportation to maintain, repair, and plow the Jennings Freeway in
exchange for road salt, for a period of two years, with three one-year options to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Public Works. (O 328-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Aging to enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior Lawn Care & Snow Removal Program through the use
of Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 481-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Laura M. Bala to provide consulting services for the Commercial
Revitalization Services for E. 185th Street Project through the use of Ward 8 Casino
Revenue Funds. (O 515-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Directors of Public Works and Finance to enter into one or more contractual
agreements with the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to conduct educational,
recreational and extracurricular programming through the use of Ward 14 Casino
Revenue Funds. (O 480-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio
to construct the Interstate 90 / Martin Luther King Jr., Drive interchange improvement;
and authorizing agreements. (O 76-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .590

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .625

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .610

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Behrwald Avenue, 4813 (Ward 13) — Lisa Houchens, owner — appeal adopted on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-22-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605

628

April 24, 2019

The City Record

63

Benwood Avenue, 12726 (Ward 2) — Ray Sohrabi, owner — appeal adopted on
4/17/19 (Doc. A-19-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carolina Road, 11445 (Ward 9) — Oliver Blocker, owner — appeal adopted on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-16-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Colonnadde Road, 1882 (Ward 10) — Angel Aikens, owner — appeal resolved on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-29-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Delora Avenue, 5621 (Ward 13) — Pera Vlku/Branka Vlku, owner — appeal adopted on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-23-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 101st Street, 2317 (Ward 6) — Yaris, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-33-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 112th Street, 1210 (Ward 9) — Oliver Blocker, owner — appeal adopted on
4/17/19 (Doc. A-17-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st Street, 4096 (Ward 1) — Shadi Bishara, owner — appeal resolved on
4/17/19 (Doc. A-31-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 133rd Street, 4246 (Ward 1) — Barry Sullivan, owner — appeal resolved on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-30-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 134th Street, 3407 (Ward 4) — Emergent Properties LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/17/19 (Doc. A-28-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 137th Street, 3260 (Ward 4) — Elizabeth Brown, owner — appeal resolved on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-25-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 2206 (Ward 6) — Iris J. Franklin, owner — appeal resolved on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-32-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Erin Avenue, 3705 (Ward 14) — Anthony Williams, Autumn Lam, owner — appeal adopted on
4/17/19 (Doc. A-10-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 5805 (Ward 7) — Solar Action, LLC, Contractor — appeal adopted on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-11-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evangeline Road, 996 (Ward 8) — Grafton Hil Holdings, LLC, owner — appeal adopted
on 4/17/19 (Doc. A-14-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hazeldell Road, 11705 (Ward 3) — Oliver Blocker, owner — appeal adopted on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-18-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Road, 3985 (Ward 1) — Gayle Cummings, owner — appeal adopted on 4/17/19 (Doc. A-54-19) .
Madison Avenue, 6008-10 (Ward 15) — Miloslav Cajan, owner — appeal resolved on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-24-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Massie Avenue, 10913 (Ward 9) — Rose Marie Thomas, owner — appeal adopted on
4/17/19 (Doc. A-13-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Norman Avenue, 10523 (Ward 6) — Alfred Mathews, owner — appeal resolved on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-315-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prince Avenue, 9401 (Ward 2) — Randy Gary, owner — appeal adopted on 4/17/19 (Doc. A-15-19) .
Spring Road, 1611 (Ward 12) — Spiro & Panglotis Kefalos, owner — appeal resolved
on 4/17/19 (Doc. A-34-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Avenue, 11721 (Ward 2) — Raymond Grant, owner — appeal resolved on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-39-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 3716 (Ward 16) — George M. Chelala, owner — appeal adopted on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-270-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 32nd Street, 3197 (Ward 14) — Marcelo Galarza, owner — appeal adopted on 4/17/19
(Doc. A-21-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 36th Street, 2173 (Ward 3) — Martin D. Fano, owner — appeal resolved on
4/17/19 (Doc. A-38-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street, 1833-35 (Ward 3) — West 48th Suites, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/17/19 (Doc. A-26-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street, 1854 (Ward 3) — West 48th Suites, LLC, owner — appeal resolved
on 4/17/19 (Doc. A-27-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 57th Street, 1896 (Ward 15) — Gartland West Properties LLC, owner — appeal adopted
on 4/17/19 (Doc. A-12-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605

Board of Control — Airports Division
Snow and ice removal services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)(24) to Snow Systems Nationwide,
Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 136-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Environmental testing services for Third District Police Station — second modify Contract
#9501-PS2010-281 per BOC Res. 418-13 — Dept. of Economic Development (BOC Res. 139-19) .
Fire Station 23 Roof Replacement and Garage Door Repairs — per Ord. 734-14 (BOC Res. 140-19) .
Fulton Road (Clark Ave. to Lorain Ave.) improvements — amend BOC Res. 472-18 — Division
of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 138-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreation Center Roofs Package Project (2018) architectural and engineering services —
first modify Contract #PI2018*052 per BOC Res. 429-18 — Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 137-19). . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Ashbury Road (Ward 9) — PPN 107-23-021 — GCN Master Tenant, LLC (BOC Res. 149-19) .
East 100th Street and East 97th Street (Ward 6) — PPNs 121-16-038/049/050/059
& 121-18-147 — B.R. Knez Construction, Inc. (BOC Res. 143-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 117th Street, 3467 (Ward 2) — PPN 130-20-126 — Larry E. Bailey (BOC Res. 144-19) . .
East 119th Street, 4143 (Ward 2) — PPN 138-08-019 — Rosa L. Thornton (BOC Res. 146-19).

629

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600

The City Record

64

April 24, 2019

East 146th Street, 3863 (Ward 2) — PPN 139-07-081 — Sherilyn Howard and Otmous
Howard (BOC Res. 150-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 70th Street, 1684 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-15-081 — Most Rev. Nelson J. Perez, Bishop of
the Diocese of Cleveland (BOC Res. 148-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 77th Street, 1062 (Ward 9) — PPN 105-31-067 — Elkanard Smith, Jr. (BOC Res. 147-19).
Reno Avenue, 10705 (Ward 2) — PPN 135-19-069 — Michael E. Clark (BOC Res. 145-19) . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600

Board of Control — Economic Development Department
Environmental testing services for Third District Police Station — second modify Contract
#9501-PS2010-281 per BOC Res. 418-13 — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 139-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Fulton Road (Clark Ave. to Lorain Ave.) improvements — amend BOC Res. 472-18 — Office of
Capital Projects (BOC Res. 138-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599

Board of Control — Finance Department
Payment gateway services — per C.O. Sec. 127.43 to Payment Express, Inc. — Division of
Parking Facilities, Depts. of Law, Public Works (BOC Res. 128-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Project management and business analysis — amend BOC Res. 70-19 — Division of Information
Technology & Services, Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 127-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Board of Control — Gateway Garages
Gateway East Garage Management — per Ord. 147-2019 to SP Plus Corporation — Depts.
of Law, Public Works (BOC Res. 141-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599

Board of Control — Information Technology and Services Division
Project management and business analysis — amend BOC Res. 70-19 — Depts. of Finance, Law
(BOC Res. 127-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Board of Control — Land Reconveyance
City owned property located at 1481 Addison Road — PPN 106-18-007 — convey to Cleveland
Metropolitan School District — Division of Purchases and Supplies (BOC Res. 142-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Ashbury Road (Ward 9) — PPN 107-23-021 — GCN Master Tenant, LLC (BOC Res. 149-19) . .
East 100th Street and East 97th Street (Ward 6) — PPNs 121-16-038/049/050/059
& 121-18-147 — B.R. Knez Construction, Inc. (BOC Res. 143-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 117th Street, 3467 (Ward 2) — PPN 130-20-126 — Larry E. Bailey (BOC Res. 144-19) . . .
East 119th Street, 4143 (Ward 2) — PPN 138-08-019 — Rosa L. Thornton (BOC Res. 146-19). .
East 146th Street, 3863 (Ward 2) — PPN 139-07-081 — Sherilyn Howard and Otmous
Howard (BOC Res. 150-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 70th Street, 1684 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-15-081 — Most Rev. Nelson J. Perez, Bishop of
the Diocese of Cleveland (BOC Res. 148-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 77th Street, 1062 (Ward 9) — PPN 105-31-067 — Elkanard Smith, Jr. (BOC Res. 147-19).
Reno Avenue, 10705 (Ward 2) — PPN 135-19-069 — Michael E. Clark (BOC Res. 145-19) . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 2)
East 117th Street, 3467 (Ward 2) — PPN 130-20-126 — Larry E. Bailey (BOC Res. 144-19) . .
East 119th Street, 4143 (Ward 2) — PPN 138-08-019 — Rosa L. Thornton (BOC Res. 146-19).
East 146th Street, 3863 (Ward 2) — PPN 139-07-081 — Sherilyn Howard and Otmous
Howard (BOC Res. 150-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reno Avenue, 10705 (Ward 2) — PPN 135-19-069 — Michael E. Clark (BOC Res. 145-19) . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 6)
East 100th Street and East 97th Street (Ward 6) — PPNs 121-16-038/049/050/059
& 121-18-147 — B.R. Knez Construction, Inc. (BOC Res. 143-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 7)
East 70th Street, 1684 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-15-081 — Most Rev. Nelson J. Perez, Bishop of
the Diocese of Cleveland (BOC Res. 148-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 9)
Ashbury Road (Ward 9) — PPN 107-23-021 — GCN Master Tenant, LLC (BOC Res. 149-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
East 77th Street, 1062 (Ward 9) — PPN 105-31-067 — Elkanard Smith, Jr. (BOC Res. 147-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601

630

April 24, 2019

The City Record

65

Board of Control — Law Department
Gateway East Garage Management — per Ord. 147-2019 to SP Plus Corporation — Depts.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 141-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payment gateway services — per C.O. Sec. 127.43 to Payment Express, Inc. — Division of
Parking Facilities, Depts. of Finance, Public Works (BOC Res. 128-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project management and business analysis — amend BOC Res. 70-19 — Division of Information
Technology & Services, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 127-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreation Center Roofs Package Project (2018) architectural and engineering services —
first modify Contract #PI2018*052 per BOC Res. 429-18 —
Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 137-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

Board of Control — Parking Facilities Division
Payment gateway services — per C.O. Sec. 127.43 to Payment Express, Inc. — Depts.
of Finance, Law, Public Works (BOC Res. 128-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Floor and floor coverings repair or replacement — per Ord. 942-17 — all bids
rejected (BOC Res. 135-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
Low/medium Electrical Equipment maintenance and repair — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — all bids
rejected (BOC Res. 134-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
Snow and ice removal services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)(24) to Snow Systems Nationwide,
Inc. — Division of Airports (BOC Res. 136-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Environmental testing services for Third District Police Station — second modify Contract
#9501-PS2010-281 per BOC Res. 418-13 — Dept. of Economic Development, Office
of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 139-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gateway East Garage Management — per Ord. 147-2019 to SP Plus Corporation — Depts.
of Law, Public Works (BOC Res. 141-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General/Soft Skills, DPU Administration, Industry-specific Training, and
Job-specific Training services — amend BOC Res. 282-16 — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 129-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payment gateway services — per C.O. Sec. 127.43 to Payment Express, Inc. — Division of
Parking Facilities, Depts. of Finance, Law, Public Works (BOC Res. 128-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project management and business analysis — amend BOC Res. 70-19 — Division of Information
Technology & Services, Depts. of Finance, Law (BOC Res. 127-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
East 185th Street and Marcella Road Relief Sewer Project — amend BOC Res. 482-18 —
Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 131-19) . . . . . . . . .
East 85th Street and Chester Parkway Area Sewer Project — approve subcontractors —
Contract PI2019*4 per BOC Res. 515-18 — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 130-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire Station 23 Roof Replacement and Garage Door Repairs — per Ord. 734-14 — Office of
Capital Projects (BOC Res. 140-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Road (Clark Ave. to Lorain Ave.) improvements — amend BOC Res. 472-18 — Division
of Engineering and Construction, Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 138-19) . . . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Improvements Project — per Ord. 1406-15 to Kokosing Industrial, Inc. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 133-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreation Center Roofs Package Project (2018) architectural and engineering services —
first modify Contract #PI2018*052 per BOC Res. 429-18 — Office of Capital Projects,
Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 137-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security Improvements Project Phase II — per Ord. 692-13 to North Electric, Inc. — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 132-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
East 185th Street and Marcella Road Relief Sewer Project — amend BOC Res. 482-18 —
Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 131-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 85th Street and Chester Parkway Area Sewer Project — approve subcontractors —
Contract PI2019*4 per BOC Res. 515-18 — Division of Water Pollution Control
(BOC Res. 130-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General/Soft Skills, DPU Administration, Industry-specific Training, and
Job-specific Training services — amend BOC Res. 282-16 (BOC Res. 129-19) . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Improvements Project — per Ord. 1406-15 to Kokosing Industrial, Inc. —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 133-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security Improvements Project Phase II — per Ord. 692-13 to North Electric, Inc.
(BOC Res. 132-19)* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

631

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

The City Record

66

April 24, 2019

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Gateway East Garage Management — per Ord. 147-2019 to SP Plus Corporation
(BOC Res. 141-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payment gateway services — per C.O. Sec. 127.43 to Payment Express, Inc. —
Parking Facilities, Depts. of Finance, Law (BOC Res. 128-19) . . . . . . . . . .

— Depts. of Law
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599
Division of
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
City owned property located at 1481 Addison Road — PPN 106-18-007 — convey to Cleveland
Metropolitan School District (BOC Res. 142-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Floor and floor coverings repair or replacement — per Ord. 942-17 — all bids rejected —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 135-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
Low/medium Electrical Equipment maintenance and repair — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — all bids
rejected — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 134-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
Snow and ice removal services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)(24) to Snow Systems Nationwide,
Inc. — Division of Airports, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 136-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

Board of Control — Water Division
Nottingham Improvements Project — per Ord. 1406-15 to Kokosing Industrial, Inc. — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 133-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
East 185th Street and Marcella Road Relief Sewer Project — amend BOC Res. 482-18 — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 131-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597
East 85th Street and Chester Parkway Area Sewer Project — approve subcontractors —
Contract PI2019*4 per BOC Res. 515-18 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 130-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597

Board of Control — West Side Market
Payment gateway services — per C.O. Sec. 127.43 to Payment Express, Inc. — Division of
Parking Facilities, Depts. of Finance, Law, Public Works (BOC Res. 128-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Board of Control — Willard Park Garage
Payment gateway services — per C.O. Sec. 127.43 to Payment Express, Inc. — Division of
Parking Facilities, Depts. of Finance, Law, Public Works (BOC Res. 128-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596

Board of Park Commissioners
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to execute a deed of easement granting to The Board
of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District certain easement
rights in property located near West 53rd Street; declaring that the easement rights
granted are not needed for public use; and authorizing the director to enter into one or
more agreements with the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and maintain an all- purpose
trail connecting the Red Line Greenway to the Zone Recreation Center trail. (O 255-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .609

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadview Road, 4855 (Ward 13) — R & R Salvage and Towing — appeal heard on 4/22/19
(Cal. 19-50) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carter Road, 2033 (Ward 3) — Lake Link LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
4/22/19 (Cal. 19-24). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carter Road, 2055 (Ward 3) — Lake Link, LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
4/22/19 (Cal. 19-42). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carter Road, 2101 (Ward 3) — Michael & Cheryl D’Amico, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 4/22/19 (Cal. 19-43) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chesterfield Avenue, 12341 (Ward 9) — RD Management Group LLC, owner — appeal
postponed to 6/17/19 on 4/22/19 (Cal. 19-51) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 502-504 (Ward 10) — Eloise Bolden, owner — appeal heard on 4/22/19
(Cal. 19-53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parkgrove Avenue, 15706 (Ward 8) — Yolanda F. Hamilton, owner — appeal heard on 4/22/19
(Cal. 19-26) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 1440 (Ward 16) — Forrest Urbank, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
4/22/19 (Cal. 19-46). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont Street, 2481 (Ward 3) — 2481 Tremont LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
4/22/19 (Cal. 19-21). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Park Avenue, 6809 (Ward 7) — Thomas J. & Marianne Wright, owners — appeal
postponed to 7/22/19 on 4/22/19 (Cal. 19-52) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 2554 (Ward 3) — Columbo Enterprises, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 4/22/19 (Cal. 19-38) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Whitman Avenue, 4020 (Ward 3) — Developers Specialty Services, LLC, owner — appeal
granted and adopted on 4/22/19 (Cal. 19-49) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

632

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604

April 24, 2019

The City Record

67

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Denison Avenue, 6904 (Ward 14) — Suhail Iwais, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/6/19
(Cal. 19-65) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ellen Avenue, 6007 (Ward 15) — Petru Stinea, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/6/19
(Cal. 19-47) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Herschel Court, 603 (Ward 3) — Brian Davine, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/6/19
(Cal. 19-62) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wakefield Avenue, 6607 (Ward 15) — Elmhurst Homes, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/6/19
(Cal. 19-61) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wakefield Avenue, 6609 (Ward 15) — Elmhurst Homes, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/6/19
(Cal. 19-60) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 7th Street, 2445 (Ward 3) — Elias Karaboutis, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/6/19
(Cal. 19-64) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602

Bonds
Authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in the maximum principal amount of $12,000,000 for
the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal parks and recreation facilities and
authorizing related matters. (O 508-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .570
Authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in the maximum principal amount of $18,000,000 for
the purpose of providing funds to improve buildings and structures housing and providing
for the discharge of governmental functions and services otherwise benefiting the public
safety, health and welfare and for the provision of necessary fixtures, furnishings,
equipment, technology, appurtenances, utilities, and site improvements for the purpose
and authorizing related matters. (O 509-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .576
Authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in the maximum principal amount of $23,000,000 for
the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal street system and related
facilities and authorizing related matters. (O 510-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .583

Capital Projects
Authorizing the acquisition and recording of certain easement interests from Uptown Three
L.P. for use of a public sidewalk to be used as a drop off area for students and residents,
for the Office of Capital Projects. (O 516-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell City owned property no longer
needed for public use located at the northeast corner of East 93rd Street and Chester
Avenue to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation for purposes of constructing a dental clinic.
(O 512-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating several offices
and one area in City Hall caused by water damage; and authorizing the Directors of
Capital Projects and/or Public Works to enter into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing the Director of Finance to lease
office space to temporarily locate employees while renovations are being made to their
offices, for a period up to one year; authorizing the acceptance of gifts and grants; and
authorizing the purchase and rental by one or more requirement contracts of furniture,
furniture systems, equipment, comprehensive moving and storage services. (O 513-2019) . .
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio
to construct the Interstate 90 / Martin Luther King Jr., Drive interchange improvement;
and authorizing agreements. (O 76-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .592

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .590

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .591

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608

Case Western Reserve University
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into one or more contracts with Case
Western Reserve University to provide a youth summer sports, nutrition, health, and life
skills development program for 2019 under the National Youth Sports Program sponsored
by Case Western Reserve University. (O 199-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .609

Casino Revenue Funds
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Aging to enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior Lawn Care & Snow Removal Program through the use
of Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 481-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Laura M. Bala to provide consulting services for the Commercial
Revitalization Services for E. 185th Street Project through the use of Ward 8 Casino
Revenue Funds. (O 515-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594
Authorizing the Directors of Public Works and Finance to enter into one or more contractual
agreements with the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to conduct educational,
recreational and extracurricular programming through the use of Ward 14 Casino
Revenue Funds. (O 480-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

Census
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into a Trademark License Agreement with the U.S.
Census Bureau, U.S. Department of Commerce. (O 520-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .592

633

The City Record

68

April 24, 2019

City Council
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into one or more internship agreements with various
individuals to provide assistance to the Office of the Clerk and the members of Cleveland
City Council in any and all matters related to official Council business. (O 448-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626

City of Cleveland Bids
City Hall Water Damage Repair — Office of Capital Projects — Division of Architecture and
Site Improvement — bid due May 3, 2019(advertised 4/17/2019 and 4/24/2019) . . . . . . . . . . . .
City-owned Jet Bridges upgrading, enhancing, refurbishing and moving — Department of Port
Control — Division of Airports — per Ord. 1409-18 — bid due May 31, 2019 (advertised
4/24/2019 and 5/1/2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electric motors, controls, transformers, circuit breakers, switchgears and appurtenance
refurbishment and repair — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per
Ord. 696-18 — bid due May 15, 2019 (advertised 4/17/2019 and 4/24/2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminal Boiler Replacement — Department of Port Control — Division of Airports —
per Ord. 814-12 — bid due May 17, 2019 (advertised 4/17/2019 and 4/24/2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

City Planning Commission
Changing the Use, Height and Area Districts of parcels along West 25th Street, Lorain Avenue
and Gehring Avenue as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2592); subjecting
such parcels to Section 333.02 of the Cleveland Zoning Code; and attaching the Approved
Site Development Plan. (O 339-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dedication Plat for Abbey Avenue and Gehring Avenue, Lorain Avenue and Gehring Avenue.
Approved by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, and Development
Planning and Sustainability. Without objection, Plat approved. (F 517-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dedication Plat for Bridge Court Townhomes Subdivision, West 54th Street between Franklin
Boulevard and Bridge Court. Approved by Committees on Municipal Services and
Properties, and Development Planning and Sustainability. Without objection, Plat
approved. (F 518-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing a zero foot Mapped Building Setback from the property line along the southern
side of Carter Road between Riverbed Street and the eastern property line of Permanent
Parcel No. 004-26-040 (Map Change 2600). (O 514-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio to
construct the Interstate 90 / Martin Luther King Jr., Drive interchange improvement; and
authorizing agreements. (O 76-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .611

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .593

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608

Clerk of Council
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into a Trademark License Agreement with the U.S.
Census Bureau, U.S. Department of Commerce. (O 520-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .592
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into one or more internship agreements with various
individuals to provide assistance to the Office of the Clerk and the members of Cleveland
City Council in any and all matters related to official Council business. (O 448-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell City owned property no longer
needed for public use located at the northeast corner of East 93rd Street and Chester
Avenue to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation for purposes of constructing a dental clinic.
(O 512-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .590

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport ( CHIA )
Authorizing the purchase by one or more contracts of one aircraft rescue and firefighting
vehicle, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control. (O 374-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .595

Cleveland Metroparks District
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to execute a deed of easement granting to The Board
of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District certain easement
rights in property located near West 53rd Street; declaring that the easement rights
granted are not needed for public use; and authorizing the director to enter into one or
more agreements with the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and maintain an all-purpose
trail connecting the Red Line Greenway to the Zone Recreation Center trail. (O 255-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .609

Cleveland Metropolitan School District
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing
Agreement with CLE Dexter LLC and/or its designee, in consideration for the developer
agreeing to make certain improvement to the property; to provide for payments to the
Cleveland City School District; and to declare certain improvements to real property to be
a public purpose. (O 401-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .595

634

April 24, 2019

The City Record

69

Authorizing the Directors of Public Works and Finance to enter into one or more contractual
agreements with the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to conduct educational,
recreational and extracurricular programming through the use of Ward 14 Casino
Revenue Funds. (O 480-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

Cleveland Municipal School District
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing
Agreement with Sustainable Community Associates, LTD, or its designee, to support debt
service related to the project and assist with the development of market rate apartments,
retail space and residential parking; to provide for payments to the Cleveland City School
District; and to declare certain improvements to real property to be a public purpose.
(O 324-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594

Cleveland Public Power ( CPP )
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more agreements with the
Wyland Foundation, to accept the gift of restoration of the Wyland Whale Wall mural
entitled “Song of Whales” located on the Cleveland Public Power Building at 5251 North
Marginal Road. (O 319-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .610
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of duct line, street lighting
bases and pull boxes, labor and materials necessary to install, repair, replace or maintain
the duct line, street lighting bases and pull boxes, and other related incidentals, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two
years, with two one-year options to renew, the first of which requires additional
legislative authority. (O 377-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624

Codified Ordinances
To amend Section 559.247 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 407-15, passed June 1, 2015, relating to designating the Pakistani Garden at
1200 Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard. (O 254-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .609
To amend Section 125.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 126-01, passed March 26, 2001, relating to the Law Director’s powers and
duties; and to amend Section 3 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to
compensation for various classifications. (O 443-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .596
To repeal Ordinance 1419-18, passed April 1, 2019 and to amend Section 171.57 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 1492-05, passed August
3, 2005, relating to military service leave of absence. (O 450-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

Community Development
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide Decent, Safe and Sanitary Inspections, for a period of two years,
with up to four six month options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Community
Development. (O 402-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .625
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to terminate HOME Loan No. 57636 with
Harvard Elderly Limited Partnership and to forgive the principal balance and interest
due on the loan and to release the mortgage and cancel the promissory note. (O 403-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .625
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Laura M. Bala to provide consulting services for the Commercial
Revitalization Services for E. 185th Street Project through the use of Ward 8 Casino
Revenue Funds. (O 515-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594

Condolences
Condolence Resolution for Randy Williams. (R 527-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
Condolence Resolution for Samuel Lee Hunter. (R 526-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

Congratulations
Congratulations Resolution for Elizabeth Baptist Church. (R 529-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
Congratulations Resolution for Reverend Dr. Joshua Antoine Harris. (R 528-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
Congratulations Resolution for William Maynard 93rd Birthday. (R 530-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

Contracts
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to terminate HOME Loan No. 57636 with
Harvard Elderly Limited Partnership and to forgive the principal balance and interest
due on the loan and to release the mortgage and cancel the promissory note. (O 403-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .625
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more contracts with Youth
Opportunities Unlimited for the administration, implementation, and management of the
Cleveland Summer Youth Employment Program and authorizing one or more contracts
with public agencies or communities to implement the Summer Youth Employment
Program, for a period of one year, with a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Utilities. (O 388-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624

635

The City Record

70

Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first option to renew Contract No.
CT 2002 PS 2017-188 with National Urban Fellows to support the placement of a fellow in
the class of 2020 within the Department of Public Utilities under the program. (O 406-2019)
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into contract with the Northeast Ohio Muni
Football League aka Cleveland Municipal Football Association dba Cleveland Muny
Football League to conduct a city wide football program. (O 389-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into one or more contracts with Case
Western Reserve University to provide a youth summer sports, nutrition, health, and life
skills development program for 2019 under the National Youth Sports Program sponsored
by Case Western Reserve University. (O 199-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more contracts of one aircraft rescue and firefighting
vehicle, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control. (O 374-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more contracts of one solid waste incinerator, including
labor and materials for installation, and for maintenance, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, for a period up to two years. (O 812-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of duct line, street lighting
bases and pull boxes, labor and materials necessary to install, repair, replace or maintain
the duct line, street lighting bases and pull boxes, and other related incidentals, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two
years, with two one-year options to renew, the first of which requires additional
legislative authority. (O 377-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

April 24, 2019

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .609

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .595

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624

Cuyahoga County
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more agreements with Cuyahoga
County for administration and operation of the Family Justice Center; and to pay the
County for its share of the costs, for a period up to four years. (O 405-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626

Dues
Authorizing payment of membership dues of the City of Cleveland in Global Cleveland for
2019. (O 442-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626

Easements
Authorizing the acquisition and recording of certain easement interests from Uptown Three
L.P. for use of a public sidewalk to be used as a drop off area for students and residents,
for the Office of Capital Projects. (O 516-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .592
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to execute a deed of easement granting to The Board
of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District certain easement
rights in property located near West 53rd Street; declaring that the easement rights
granted are not needed for public use; and authorizing the director to enter into one or
more agreements with the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and maintain an all-purpose
trail connecting the Red Line Greenway to the Zone Recreation Center trail. (O 255-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .609

Economic Development Department
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing
Agreement with Sustainable Community Associates, LTD, or its designee, to support debt
service related to the project and assist with the development of market rate apartments,
retail space and residential parking; to provide for payments to the Cleveland City School
District; and to declare certain improvements to real property to be a public purpose.
(O 324-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594

Family Justice Center
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more agreements with Cuyahoga
County for administration and operation of the Family Justice Center; and to pay the
County for its share of the costs, for a period up to four years. (O 405-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626

Finance Department
Determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating several offices
and one area in City Hall caused by water damage; and authorizing the Directors of
Capital Projects and/or Public Works to enter into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing the Director of Finance to lease
office space to temporarily locate employees while renovations are being made to their
offices, for a period up to one year; authorizing the acceptance of gifts and grants; and
authorizing the purchase and rental by one or more requirement contracts of furniture,
furniture systems, equipment, comprehensive moving and storage services. (O 513-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .591
Authorizing payment of membership dues of the City of Cleveland in Global Cleveland for
2019. (O 442-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626
Authorizing the Director of Finance to employ one or more professional consultants to develop
and provide programs and activities for youth and their families, including summer
programs at City recreation centers, to serve as tools to prevent violence, develop skills
and knowledge to overcome challenges associated with trauma and toxic stress, and to
create opportunities for youth and their families to live quality lives, for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance. (O 387-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624

636

April 24, 2019

The City Record

71

Authorizing the Directors of Public Works and Finance to enter into one or more contractual
agreements with the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to conduct educational,
recreational and extracurricular programming through the use of Ward 14 Casino
Revenue Funds. (O 480-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in the maximum principal amount of $12,000,000 for
the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal parks and recreation facilities and
authorizing related matters. (O 508-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in the maximum principal amount of $18,000,000 for
the purpose of providing funds to improve buildings and structures housing and providing
for the discharge of governmental functions and services otherwise benefiting the public
safety, health and welfare and for the provision of necessary fixtures, furnishings,
equipment, technology, appurtenances, utilities, and site improvements for the purpose
and authorizing related matters. (O 509-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in the maximum principal amount of $23,000,000 for
the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal street system and related
facilities and authorizing related matters. (O 510-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To repeal Ordinance 1419-18, passed April 1, 2019 and to amend Section 171.57 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 1492-05, passed August
3, 2005, relating to military service leave of absence. (O 450-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .570

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .576

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .583

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

Gifts
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more agreements with the
Wyland Foundation, to accept the gift of restoration of the Wyland Whale Wall mural
entitled “Song of Whales” located on the Cleveland Public Power Building at 5251 North
Marginal Road. (O 319-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .610

Grant Agreement
Authorizing the appropriate Director or Directors to enter into a grant agreement with Ohio
City Incorporated to provide program support for Near West Recreation youth programs.
(O 519-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .592

Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide Decent, Safe and Sanitary Inspections, for a period of two years,
with up to four six month options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Community
Development. (O 402-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .625

Law Department
To amend Section 125.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 126-01, passed March 26, 2001, relating to the Law Director’s powers and
duties; and to amend Section 3 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to
compensation for various classifications. (O 443-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .596

Leases
Determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating several offices
and one area in City Hall caused by water damage; and authorizing the Directors of
Capital Projects and/or Public Works to enter into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing the Director of Finance to lease
office space to temporarily locate employees while renovations are being made to their
offices, for a period up to one year; authorizing the acceptance of gifts and grants; and
authorizing the purchase and rental by one or more requirement contracts of furniture,
furniture systems, equipment, comprehensive moving and storage services. (O 513-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .591

License Agreements
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into a Trademark License Agreement with the U.S.
Census Bureau, U.S. Department of Commerce. (O 520-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .592

Liquor Permits
#14374151165. New License Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, 224
Euclid Ave. (Ward 3). (F 522-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#14374151170. New License Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, 16729
Lorain Ave. (Ward 17). (F 525-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#14374151175. New License Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, 11452
Euclid Ave. (Ward 6). (F 523-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#26312750340. New License Application, C2. Family Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., 8003 Broadway
Ave. (Ward 12). (F 524-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 16122 Lake Shore Boulevard. (R 484-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 4576 West 130th Street. (R 483-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

637

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .607

The City Record

72

April 24, 2019

Objecting to the transfer of location of a C2 Liquor Permit to 1701 East 12th Street, Street,
Suites ZMR 14 and ZMR 15. (R 485-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608
Objecting to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 10300 Union Avenue
and Patio. (R 521-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594
Withdrawing objection to a New D5A Liquor Permit at 6955 Euclid Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 150-19 objecting to said permit. (R 486-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608

Loans
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to terminate HOME Loan No. 57636 with
Harvard Elderly Limited Partnership and to forgive the principal balance and interest
due on the loan and to release the mortgage and cancel the promissory note. (O 403-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .625

Military Service
To repeal Ordinance 1419-18, passed April 1, 2019 and to amend Section 171.57 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 1492-05, passed August
3, 2005, relating to military service leave of absence. (O 450-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

National Urban Fellows
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first option to renew Contract No.
CT 2002 PS 2017-188 with National Urban Fellows to support the placement of a fellow in
the class of 2020 within the Department of Public Utilities under the program. (O 406-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626

Ohio City Incorporated
Authorizing the appropriate Director or Directors to enter into a grant agreement with Ohio
City Incorporated to provide program support for Near West Recreation youth programs.
(O 519-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .592

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into an agreement with the State of Ohio,
Department of Transportation to maintain, repair, and plow the Jennings Freeway in
exchange for road salt, for a period of two years, with three one-year options to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Public Works. (O 328-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .610
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio
to construct the Interstate 90 / Martin Luther King Jr., Drive interchange improvement;
and authorizing agreements. (O 76-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608

Ohio General Assembly
Urging the Ohio General Assembly to increase the Ohio Rape Crisis Centers Line Item in the
Ohio Operating Budget from $1,550,000 to $3,000,000 per fiscal year. (R 482-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .596

Plats
Dedication Plat for Abbey Avenue and Gehring Avenue, Lorain Avenue and Gehring Avenue.
Approved by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, and Development
Planning and Sustainability. Without objection, Plat approved. (F 517-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
Dedication Plat for Bridge Court Townhomes Subdivision, West 54th Street between Franklin
Boulevard and Bridge Court. Approved by Committees on Municipal Services and
Properties, and Development Planning and Sustainability. Without objection, Plat
approved. (F 518-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

Police Division
Authorizing the purchase by one or more contracts of one solid waste incinerator, including
labor and materials for installation, and for maintenance, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, for a period up to two years. (O 812-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608

Port Control Department
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell City owned property no longer
needed for public use located on Brookpark Road near NASA Glenn Research Center to
21000 Brookpark Landlord, LLC, for purposes of providing parking for a redevelopment to
be located in Fairview Park; and to enter into a purchase and sale agreement. (O 1187-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to exercise the second option to renew Contract No.
CT 3001 PS 2017-176 with IntelliNet Corporation to provide technical support and
maintenance of core information technology activities, and other related services, for the
Department of Port Control. (O 404-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .596
Authorizing the purchase by one or more contracts of one aircraft rescue and firefighting
vehicle, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control. (O 374-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .595

638

April 24, 2019

The City Record

73

Professional Services
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Laura M. Bala to provide consulting services for the Commercial
Revitalization Services for E. 185th Street Project through the use of Ward 8 Casino
Revenue Funds. (O 515-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594

Professional Services Contracts
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide Decent, Safe and Sanitary Inspections, for a period of two years,
with up to four six month options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Community
Development. (O 402-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .625
Authorizing the Director of Finance to employ one or more professional consultants to develop
and provide programs and activities for youth and their families, including summer
programs at City recreation centers, to serve as tools to prevent violence, develop skills
and knowledge to overcome challenges associated with trauma and toxic stress, and to
create opportunities for youth and their families to live quality lives, for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance. (O 387-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to exercise the second option to renew Contract No.
CT 3001 PS 2017-176 with IntelliNet Corporation to provide technical support and
maintenance of core information technology activities, and other related services, for the
Department of Port Control. (O 404-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .596

Public Improvement Contracts
Determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating several offices
and one area in City Hall caused by water damage; and authorizing the Directors of
Capital Projects and/or Public Works to enter into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing the Director of Finance to lease
office space to temporarily locate employees while renovations are being made to their
offices, for a period up to one year; authorizing the acceptance of gifts and grants; and
authorizing the purchase and rental by one or more requirement contracts of furniture,
furniture systems, equipment, comprehensive moving and storage services. (O 513-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .591

Public Improvements
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio to
construct the Interstate 90 / Martin Luther King Jr., Drive interchange improvement; and
authorizing agreements. (O 76-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608

Public Works
Determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating several offices
and one area in City Hall caused by water damage; and authorizing the Directors of
Capital Projects and/or Public Works to enter into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing the Director of Finance to lease
office space to temporarily locate employees while renovations are being made to their
offices, for a period up to one year; authorizing the acceptance of gifts and grants; and
authorizing the purchase and rental by one or more requirement contracts of furniture,
furniture systems, equipment, comprehensive moving and storage services. (O 513-2019) . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into an agreement with the Neighborhood
Leadership Institute to implement educational, recreational, and cultural programs in
various school buildings and recreation centers during evening hours, provide leadership
training, and supervise the summer tennis program. (O 390-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into an agreement with the State of Ohio,
Department of Transportation to maintain, repair, and plow the Jennings Freeway in
exchange for road salt, for a period of two years, with three one-year options to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Public Works. (O 328-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into contract with the Northeast Ohio Muni
Football League aka Cleveland Municipal Football Association dba Cleveland Muny
Football League to conduct a city wide football program. (O 389-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into one or more contracts with Case
Western Reserve University to provide a youth summer sports, nutrition, health, and life
skills development program for 2019 under the National Youth Sports Program sponsored
by Case Western Reserve University. (O 199-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to execute a deed of easement granting to The Board
of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District certain easement
rights in property located near West 53rd Street; declaring that the easement rights
granted are not needed for public use; and authorizing the director to enter into one or
more agreements with the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and maintain an all-purpose
trail connecting the Red Line Greenway to the Zone Recreation Center trail. (O 255-2019) .
Authorizing the Directors of Public Works and Finance to enter into one or more contractual
agreements with the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to conduct educational,
recreational and extracurricular programming through the use of Ward 14 Casino
Revenue Funds. (O 480-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

639

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .591

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .625

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .610

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .609

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .609

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

The City Record

74

April 24, 2019

To amend Section 559.247 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 407-15, passed June 1, 2015, relating to designating the Pakistani Garden at
1200 Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard. (O 254-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .609

Purchase Agreement
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell City owned property no longer
needed for public use located on Brookpark Road near NASA Glenn Research Center to
21000 Brookpark Landlord, LLC, for purposes of providing parking for a redevelopment to
be located in Fairview Park; and to enter into a purchase and sale agreement. (O 1187-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594

Purchases and Supplies Division
Authorizing the acquisition and recording of certain easement interests from Uptown Three
L.P. for use of a public sidewalk to be used as a drop off area for students and residents,
for the Office of Capital Projects. (O 516-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .592
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell City owned property no longer
needed for public use located on Brookpark Road near NASA Glenn Research Center to
21000 Brookpark Landlord, LLC, for purposes of providing parking for a redevelopment to
be located in Fairview Park; and to enter into a purchase and sale agreement. (O 1187-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594

Recognition
Recognition Resolution for Nia J. Imani. (R 531-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

Recreation Centers
Authorizing the Director of Finance to employ one or more professional consultants to develop
and provide programs and activities for youth and their families, including summer
programs at City recreation centers, to serve as tools to prevent violence, develop skills
and knowledge to overcome challenges associated with trauma and toxic stress, and to
create opportunities for youth and their families to live quality lives, for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance. (O 387-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into an agreement with the Neighborhood
Leadership Institute to implement educational, recreational, and cultural programs in
various school buildings and recreation centers during evening hours, provide leadership
training, and supervise the summer tennis program. (O 390-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .625

Resolution of Support
Urging the Ohio General Assembly to increase the Ohio Rape Crisis Centers Line Item in the
Ohio Operating Budget from $1,550,000 to $3,000,000 per fiscal year. (R 482-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .596

Safety Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more agreements with Cuyahoga
County for administration and operation of the Family Justice Center; and to pay the
County for its share of the costs, for a period up to four years. (O 405-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more mutual aid agreements with
other political subdivisions in the State of Ohio for additional police protection, fire, and
emergency medical services for aid and assistance in connection with the Major League
Baseball Association 2019 All Star Game being held in Cleveland on July 9, 2019, along with
associated events and activities on days before and after the day of the Game. (O 511-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .590
Authorizing the purchase by one or more contracts of one solid waste incinerator, including
labor and materials for installation, and for maintenance, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, for a period up to two years. (O 812-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608

State of Ohio
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more mutual aid agreements with
other political subdivisions in the State of Ohio for additional police protection, fire, and
emergency medical services for aid and assistance in connection with the Major League
Baseball Association 2019 All Star Game being held in Cleveland on July 9, 2019, along with
associated events and activities on days before and after the day of the Game. (O 511-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .590
Urging the Ohio General Assembly to increase the Ohio Rape Crisis Centers Line Item in the
Ohio Operating Budget from $1,550,000 to $3,000,000 per fiscal year. (R 482-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .596

Summer Employment Program
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more contracts with Youth
Opportunities Unlimited for the administration, implementation, and management of the
Cleveland Summer Youth Employment Program and authorizing one or more contracts
with public agencies or communities to implement the Summer Youth Employment
Program, for a period of one year, with a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Utilities. (O 388-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624

640

April 24, 2019

The City Record

75

Tax Increment Financing ( TIF )
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing
Agreement with Sustainable Community Associates, LTD, or its designee, to support debt
service related to the project and assist with the development of market rate apartments,
retail space and residential parking; to provide for payments to the Cleveland City School
District; and to declare certain improvements to real property to be a public purpose.
(O 324-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594

Utilities Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more agreements with the
Wyland Foundation, to accept the gift of restoration of the Wyland Whale Wall mural
entitled “Song of Whales” located on the Cleveland Public Power Building at 5251 North
Marginal Road. (O 319-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more contracts with Youth
Opportunities Unlimited for the administration, implementation, and management of the
Cleveland Summer Youth Employment Program and authorizing one or more contracts
with public agencies or communities to implement the Summer Youth Employment
Program, for a period of one year, with a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Utilities. (O 388-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first option to renew Contract No.
CT 2002 - 2017-188 with National Urban Fellows to support the placement of a fellow in the
class of 2020 within the Department of Public Utilities under the program. (O 406-2019) . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of duct line, street lighting
bases and pull boxes, labor and materials necessary to install, repair, replace or maintain
the duct line, street lighting bases and pull boxes, and other related incidentals, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two
years, with two one-year options to renew, the first of which requires additional
legislative authority. (O 377-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .610

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .626

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .624

Ward 01
Condolence Resolution for Randy Williams. (R 527-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

Ward 03
#14374151165. New License Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, 224 Euclid
Ave. (Ward 3). (F 522-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the appropriate Director or Directors to enter into a grant agreement with Ohio
City Incorporated to provide program support for Near West Recreation youth programs.
(O 519-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Use, Height and Area Districts of parcels along West 25th Street, Lorain Avenue
and Gehring Avenue as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2592); subjecting
such parcels to Section 333.02 of the Cleveland Zoning Code; and attaching the Approved
Site Development Plan. (O 339-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dedication Plat for Abbey Avenue and Gehring Avenue, Lorain Avenue and Gehring Avenue.
Approved by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, and Development
Planning and Sustainability. Without objection, Plat approved. (F 517-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing a zero foot Mapped Building Setback from the property line along the southern
side of Carter Road between Riverbed Street and the eastern property line of Permanent
Parcel No. 004-26-040 (Map Change 2600). (O 514-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .592

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .611

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .593

Ward 05
Congratulations Resolution for Elizabeth Baptist Church. (R 529-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
Congratulations Resolution for Reverend Dr. Joshua Antoine Harris. (R 528-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

Ward 06
#14374151175. New License Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, 11452
Euclid Ave. (Ward 6). (F 523-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the acquisition and recording of certain easement interests from Uptown Three
L.P. for use of a public sidewalk to be used as a drop off area for students and residents,
for the Office of Capital Projects. (O 516-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 10300 Union Avenue
and Patio. (R 521-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for Nia J. Imani. (R 531-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .592
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

Ward 07
Authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell City owned property no longer
needed for public use located at the northeast corner of East 93rd Street and Chester
Avenue to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation for purposes of constructing a dental clinic.
(O 512-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .590

641

The City Record

76

April 24, 2019

Objecting to the transfer of location of a C2 Liquor Permit to 1701 East 12th Street, Street,
Suites ZMR 14 and ZMR 15. (R 485-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608
Withdrawing objection to a New D5A Liquor Permit at 6955 Euclid Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 150-19 objecting to said permit. (R 486-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .608

Ward 08
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Laura M. Bala to provide consulting services for the Commercial
Revitalization Services for E. 185th Street Project through the use of Ward 8 Casino
Revenue Funds. (O 515-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .594
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 16122 Lake Shore Boulevard. (R 484-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .607

Ward 10
Condolence Resolution for Samuel Lee Hunter. (R 526-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
To amend Section 559.247 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 407-15, passed June 1, 2015, relating to designating the Pakistani Garden at
1200 Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard. (O 254-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .609

Ward 11
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Aging to enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior Lawn Care & Snow Removal Program through the use
of Ward 11 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 481-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

Ward 12
#26312750340. New License Application, C2. Family Dollar Stores of Ohio, Inc., 8003 Broadway
Ave. (Ward 12). (F 524-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
Congratulations Resolution for Elizabeth Baptist Church. (R 529-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

Ward 14
Authorizing the Directors of Public Works and Finance to enter into one or more contractual
agreements with the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to conduct educational,
recreational and extracurricular programming through the use of Ward 14 Casino
Revenue Funds. (O 480-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .627

Ward 15
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to execute a deed of easement granting to The Board
of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District certain easement
rights in property located near West 53rd Street; declaring that the easement rights
granted are not needed for public use; and authorizing the director to enter into one or
more agreements with the Cleveland Metroparks to construct and maintain an all-purpose
trail connecting the Red Line Greenway to the Zone Recreation Center trail. (O 255-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .609
Dedication Plat for Bridge Court Townhomes Subdivision, West 54th Street between Franklin
Boulevard and Bridge Court. Approved by Committees on Municipal Services and
Properties, and Development Planning and Sustainability. Without objection, Plat
approved. (F 518-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
Urging the Ohio General Assembly to increase the Ohio Rape Crisis Centers Line Item in the
Ohio Operating Budget from $1,550,000 to $3,000,000 per fiscal year. (R 482-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .596

Ward 16
Congratulations Resolution for William Maynard 93rd Birthday. (R 530-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 4576 West 130th Street. (R 483-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .607

Ward 17
#14374151170. New License Application, D3. Chipotle Mexican Grill of Colorado LLC, 16729
Lorain Ave. (Ward 17). (F 525-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .569

Zoning
Changing the Use, Height and Area Districts of parcels along West 25th Street, Lorain Avenue
and Gehring Avenue as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2592); subjecting
such parcels to Section 333.02 of the Cleveland Zoning Code; and attaching the Approved
Site Development Plan. (O 339-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .611
Establishing a zero foot Mapped Building Setback from the property line along the southern
side of Carter Road between Riverbed Street and the eastern property line of Permanent
Parcel No. 004-26-040 (Map Change 2600). (O 514-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .593

642

