The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Thirtieth, Two Thousand and Nineteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

14

Board of Control

14

Civil Service

16

1 Joseph T. Jones

Board of Zoning Appeals

20

2 Kevin L. Bishop
3 Kerry McCormack

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
21

4 Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr.

Public Notice

21

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

21

6 Blaine A. Griffin

City of Cleveland Bids

21

7 Basheer S. Jones

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

22

Committee Meetings

22

Index

22

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Anthony T. Hairston
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Jasmin Santana
15 Matt Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones...................................................4691 East 177th Street
44128
Kevin L. Bishop...............................................11729 Miles Avenue, #5
44105
Kerry McCormack................................................1769 West 31st Place
44113
Kenneth L. Johnson, Sr. ........................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44115
Blaine A. Griffin.........................................1810 Larchmere Boulevard
44120
Basheer S. Jones...................................................1383 East 94th Street
44106
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Anthony T. Hairston .....................................................423 Arbor Road
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Jasmin Santana......................................................3535 Marvin Avenue
44109
Matt Zone ............................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Sharon Dumas, Interim Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications Government
& International Affairs
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Matt Gray, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Tracy Martin-Thompson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Prevention, Intervention
and Opportunity for Youth and Young Adults
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Carter Edman, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
OFFICE OF QUALITY CONTROL AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT – Sabra
T. Pierce-Scott, Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Ronda G. Curtis, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Kimberly Roy-Wilson,
Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Robert Kennedy, Director, Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport & Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur,
Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Kim Johnson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Merle Gordon, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – David Hearne, Interim Commissioner
Environment – Brian Kimball, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Persis Sosiak, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Interim Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – David Carroll, Interim Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield
Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Angelo Calvillo, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Tania Menesse, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Joy Anderson, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –James Greene, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ayonna Blue Donald, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole West, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – David Ebersole, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Mary McNamara, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Grady Stevenson, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Kevin L. Bishop, Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir
Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea,
Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa Ryan, Council Member Jasmin
Santana, Peter Whitt, Ted Wammes.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Rev. Gregory E. Jordan, President; Michael
Flickinger, Vice-President; Michael Spreng, Secretary; Members: Daniel J. Brennan,
India Pierce Lee.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Henry Bailey, Myrline Barnes, Kelley Britt, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Public Utilities Director Robert L. Davis; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; David
H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Council Member Kerry McCormack,
Diane Downing, August Fluker, Charles Slife.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – _____________, Chair; Genesis O. Brown, Daniel Conway,
Robert L. Render.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Julie Trott, Chair; Giancarlo
Calicchia, Vice Chair; Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Robert
Strickland, Donald Petit, Secretary, Council Member Basheer S. Jones, Matthew L.
Spronz; Michele Anderson, Stephen Harrison, Raymond Tarasuck, Jr.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Michelle D. Earley
14-C
Judge Pinkey S. Carr
15-C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
13-A
Judge Emanuella Groves
14-B
Judge Lauren C. Moore
15-A
Judge Michael L. Nelson, Sr.
12-A
Judge Ann Clare Oakar
14-A
Judge Ronald J.H. O’Leary (Housing Court Judge)
13-B
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13-D
Judge Suzan M. Sweeney
12-C
Judge Jazmin Torres-Lugo
13-C
Judge Shiela Turner McCall
12-B
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14-D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Timothy
Lubbe – Housing Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda – Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief
Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

Vol. 106

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2019

No. 5486

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2018-2021
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Griffin
(CHAIR),
McCormack
(VICECHAIR), Conwell, B. Jones, Hairston, Santana, Zone.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR), Bishop, Brancatelli, Hairston, J. Jones, Kazy.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley
(CHAIR),
Zone
(VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell,
Griffin,
Keane,
McCormack.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, B.
Jones, Keane, McCormack.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Kazy
(VICECHAIR), Bishop, Hairston, McCormack, Polensek, Santana.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: ________
(CHAIR), Cleveland (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Griffin, B. Jones, J. Jones,
Kazy.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone (CHAIR), Polensek (VICECHAIR), Griffin, Kazy, B. Jones, J.
Jones, Santana.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Keane
(VICE-CHAIR),
Bishop,
Conwell,
Johnson, J. Jones, Santana.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor’s Appointments Committee:
Kazy (CHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Kelley.
Operations Committee: McCormack
(CHAIR), Griffin, Keane, Kelley,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Keane, Polensek.

Kelley
Hairston,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
January 28, 2019
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:03 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.

Council Members present: Kevin
L. Bishop, Dona Brady, Anthony
Brancatelli, Kevin Conwell, Blaine
A. Griffin, Anthony T. Hairston,
Kenneth L. Johnson, Basheer S.
Jones, Joseph T. Jones, Brian Kazy,
Kevin J. Kelley, Martin J. Keane,
Kerry
McCormack,
Michael
D.
Polensek, Jasmin Santana, and Matt
Zone.
Also present were: Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of
Communication,
Government
&
International
Affairs
Valarie
J.
McCall, Chief of Regional Development Edward W. Rybka, Media
Relations Director Dan Williams,
Chief of Sustainability Matt Gray,
Chief
of
Public
Affairs
Natoya
Walker-Minor, Chief of Prevention,
Intervention and Opportunity for
Youth and Young Adults Tracy Martin-Thompson,
and
Directors
Langhenry, Davis, Spronz, Gordon,
McGrath, Cox, Menesse, Blue Donald, West, Ebersole, Stevenson, Collier, McNamara, Spreng, and Burrows.
MOTION
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Keane, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Hairston.
OATHS OF OFFICE
File No. 130-2019.
Michael Spreng, Secretary, Civil
Service Commission, City of Cleveland. Received.

93

File No. 131-2019.
Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Communications, Office of the Mayor,
City of Cleveland. Received.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 132-2019.
From Khrys Shefton, Director of
Real Estate Development, Famicos
Foundation. Notice of award of funding
by
Ohio
Housing
Finance
Agency for multifamily funding programs for the development known
as Circle North Lease Purchase
Homes, at various sites in Cleveland, Ohio. Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 133-2019.
RE: #0121104. Transfer of Ownership Application, C2 C2X. Ali Elder
Enterprises, Inc., 15315 Bartlett Ave.
(Ward 1). Received.
File No. 134-2019.
RE: #1879355. Liquor Agency Contract Application. DC Liquors, Inc.,
1303
West
6th
St.
(Ward
3).
Received.
File No. 135-2019.
RE: #1879355. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2 D6 D8. DC
Liquors, Inc., 1303 West 6th St.
(Ward 3). Received.
File No. 136-2019.
RE: #4301415. New License Application, D5. Johnny’s Top Shelf Wine
and Spirits LLC, 13114 Larchmere
Ave. (Ward 4). Received.
File No. 137-2019.
RE: #5598665. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A.
Maryevan, Inc., 4920-22 Pearl Rd.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 138-2019.
RE: #5669105. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5J D6. Maynard
Concessions Group LLC, 5300 Riverside Dr. (Ward 17). Received.
File No. 139-2019.
RE: #6228007. Transfer of Ownership
Application,
C1.
Ejaz
A.
Mughal, 14910 Lorain Ave. (Ward
17). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 154-2019 — Lynda Ann
Moore Lacey.
Res.
No.
155-2019
—
Lessie
(Barnes) Brown.
Res. No. 156-2019 — Linda D.
Slone.

The City Record

4
Res. No.
Davis.
Res. No.
Boseman.
Res. No.
Res. No.
ka.

157-2019 — William David
158-2019 — Ruth Johnson
159-2019 — Annie M. Reid.
160-2019 — Scot A. Palic-

CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res.
No.
161-2019
—
DeNoris
Brown.
Res. No. 162-2019 — Rev. Benjamin
F. Gohstin, Sr.
Res. No. 163-2019 — Veronica
“Vera” Casey.
Res. No. 164-2019 — Charlene
Crowley.
Res. No. 165-2019 — Sean W.
Hardy.
Res. No. 166-2019 — James J.
McMonagle.
Res. No. 167-2019 — Christopher
Ronayne.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 168-2019 — Vietnamese
Community of Greater Cleveland –
“Year of the Pig”.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 140-2019.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of repairing,
constructing, or installing, roadways, bus pads, sidewalks, driveway
aprons, curbs, brick streets, ADA
compliant curb ramps, minor bridge
repairs,
and
appurtenances,
and
asphalt
resurfacing
and
asphalt
crack sealing; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
one or more public improvement
requirement contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing
the director to apply for and accept
any gifts or grants; and authorizing
any agreements, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
repairing,
constructing,
or
installing, roadways, bus pads, sidewalks,
driveway
aprons,
curbs,
brick streets, ADA compliant curb
ramps, minor bridge repairs, and
appurtenances, and asphalt resurfacing and asphalt crack sealing,
for the Division of Engineering and
Construction, Office of Capital Projects, by one or more public improvement requirement contracts duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder or
bidders on a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That, provided this
Council authorizes and the City sells
future bonds for the purposes that

include the improvement authorized
in this ordinance, the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for a period not to
exceed two years for the making of
the above public improvement with
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a
unit basis for the improvement for
a period not to exceed the specified
term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Office of
Capital Projects. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 3. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations required by
any regulatory agency or public
authority to permit performance of
the work authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
apply for and accept any gifts,
grants, or other funding for this purpose from any public or private entity and that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
accept a cash contribution from public or private entities for infrastructure restoration costs associated
with relocating, rehabilitating or
reconstructing utility infrastructure
for the improvement.
Section 6. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
enter into any agreement or agreements that are necessary to implement the improvement.
Section 7. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528,
20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20
SF 554, 20 SF 563, 20 SF 568, 20 SF
574, 20 SF 579, 20 SF 586 and from
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds of the sale of
future bonds if authorized by this
Council and sold by the City for a
purpose
which
includes
this
improvement, and shall also be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of any purchase under the contract,
each of which purchases shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the
contract or contracts and certified
by the Director of Finance. (RQS
0103, RLS 2019-1)
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

94

January 30, 2019
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Committees
on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 142-2019.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for and accept
grants
from
the
United
States
Department of Housing and Urban
Development for the PY2019 under
the Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for
the 2019 Federal HOME Investment
Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program; and authorizing contracts and other expenditures.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to apply for and accept grants
from the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
in the following estimated amounts:
$20,116,532 to conduct the PY2019
Community
Development
Block
Grant (CDBG) Program; $3,458,438
to
conduct
the
Federal
HOME
Investment
Partnerships
Act
(HOME) Program; $1,739,682 to conduct the Emergency Solutions Grant
(ESG) Program; and $1,096,050 for
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) Program,
for the purposes and uses set forth
in the budgets and in compliance
with the requirements of Title I of
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and applicable
rules and regulations. That the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grants,
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in this
ordinance.
Section 2. Project Clean Program.
(a) That Community Development
Block Grant funds in the estimated
amount of $1,210,999 are appropriated from Fund No. 14 SF 045 for costs
of the Department of Public Works
incurred from Fund 19 following the
appropriate federal regulations and
associated with conducting the Project Clean Program in conjunction
with the Community Development
Block Grant Program.
(b) That the Director of Public
Works is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with various
non-profit and for-profit agencies to
provide services necessary to implement the Project Clean Program
payable from Fund No. 14 SF 045
and prior years balances. (RQS 8006,
RLA 2019-0004)
(c) That prior to expending funds
under this ordinance, the Director of
Public Works and the Director of
Community Development shall enter
into a memorandum of understanding for this program.

January 30, 2019
Section 3. AIDS Prevention –
CDBG funded.
(a)
That,
as
a
Subrecipient
Grantee of CDBG funds for the
Department of Community Development, the Director of Public Health
is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies or entities to provide HIV/AIDS
prevention and education activities
and
in
addition,
the
estimated
amount of $56,393 is appropriated to
the Department of Public Health for
administrative costs of implementing the contracts authorized by this
ordinance.
(b) That the Director of Public
Health is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide evaluation services.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Health from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Health for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Health and certified by the
Director of Finance.
(c) That the Director of Public
Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
this ordinance.
(d) That any agency or entity
that receives funds under this ordinance shall be required to comply
with the evaluation services provided by the consultant.
(e) That prior to expending funds
under this ordinance, the Directors
of Public Health and Community
Development must enter into a memorandum of understanding for this
program in accordance with the
terms authorized by this legislation.
(f) That the estimated cost of the
contracts of $213,780 and the estimated administrative cost of $56,393
for a total estimated amount of
$270,173 are appropriated for costs
of the Department of Public Health
incurred from Fund 19 following the
appropriate
federal
regulations,
payable from Fund No. 14 SF 045,
and any other prior years balances.
(RQS 8006, RLA 2019-0010)
Section 4. AIDS Related Services –
HOPWA funded.
(a)
That,
as
a
Subrecipient
Grantee of HOPWA funds for the
Department of Community Development, the Director of Public Health
is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies or entities to provide AIDSrelated services in conjunction with
the Housing Opportunities for People With AIDS (HOPWA) Grant Program. The estimated amount of
$37,248
is
appropriated
to
the
Department of Public Health for
administrative costs of implementing the HOPWA program.
(b) That the Director of Public
Health is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more

The City Record
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide evaluation services.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Health from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Health for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Health and certified by the
Director of Finance.
(c) That any agency or entity
that receives funds under this ordinance shall be required to comply
with the evaluation services provided by the consultant.
(d) That prior to expending funds
under this ordinance, the Director of
Public Health and the Director of
Community Development must enter
into a memorandum of understanding for this program under the
terms authorized by this legislation.
(e) That the estimated cost of the
contracts of $1,058,802 and the estimated amount of administrative cost
of $37,248 for a total estimated
amount of $1,096,050, are appropriated for costs of the Department of
Public Health incurred from Fund
19 following the appropriate federal
regulations payable from Fund No.
19 SF 667, and any other prior years
balances. (RQS 8006, RLA 2019-0011)
Section 5 Anti-Predatory Lending
Program.
(a) That Community Development
Block Grant funds in the estimated
amount of $85,950 are appropriated
from Fund No. 14 SF 045 for antipredatory lending and foreclosure
prevention assistance, financial literacy programs, fair housing, and
administrative costs to implement
the programs.
(b) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with various organizations to provide counseling, training, marketing, program evaluation and other
services required for anti-predatory
lending and foreclosure prevention
assistance, financial literacy, fair
housing activities and to expend
funds for administrative costs to
implement the programs.
(c) That the estimated cost of the
contracts and administrative costs is
$85,950, payable from Fund No. 14 SF
045, and any other prior years balances and program income. (RQS
8006, RLA 2019-0005)
Section 6. Demolition and BoardUp Program.
(a) That Community Development
Block Grant funds in the estimated
amount of $446,276 are appropriated
from Fund No. 14 SF 045 for costs
of the Department of Building and
Housing associated with conducting
the Demolition and Board-up Programs incurred in Fund 19 following the appropriate federal regulations in conjunction with the Community Development Block Grant
Program.

95

5
(b) That the Director of Building
and Housing is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with various non-profit and for-profit agencies and entities for services necessary to implement the Demolition
Program and emergency contracts
under the Board-up Program.
(c) That the Director of Building
and Housing is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a one or two year period for the
items of labor and materials necessary to implement the Board-up Program, in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department
of Building and Housing. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Building and Housing is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with a term of
two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance,
a financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Building
and Housing by comparing the bids
received for both terms.
(d) That the costs of the contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director
of
Finance shall certify the amount of
any purchase under the contract,
each of which purchases shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
delivery order against the contract
or contracts certified by the Director of Finance. (RQS 8006, RLA 20190003)
(e) That prior to expending funds
under this ordinance, the Director of
Building and Housing and the Director of Community Development shall
enter into a memorandum of understanding for this program.
(f) That the Director of Building
and Housing is authorized to accept
monies in repayment under the program and to utilize CDBG program
income and any other prior years
balances
for
making
additional
expenditures under this program,
and the funds are appropriated for
that purpose.
(g) That the Director of Building
and Housing is authorized to collect
from persons or entities from whom
the City is collecting demolition
costs an amount equal to any
amount spent for services related to
collection of demolition cost, such as
title searches, credit bureau reports,
and document filing fees. Any funds
collected shall be deposited into
Fund No. 14.
Section 7. Social Service Activities.
(a) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into or amend contracts with
various agencies to provide social
service
programs,
including
the
senior transportation program.

6
(b) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
use other program income to finance
additional social service activities
and the program income, and any
prior years balances are appropriated for those purposes.
(c) That the estimated cost of the
contracts is $1,405,467 payable from
Fund No. 14 SF 045 and program
income and any other prior years
balances. (RQS 8006, RLA 2019-0014)
Section 8. CDC/Citywide Support.
(a) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into or amend contracts with
various agencies to provide housing,
commercial,
industrial
and
real
estate development activities.
(b) That the estimated cost of the
contracts is $1,369,945 payable from
Fund No. 14 SF 045 and any other
prior years balances. (RQS 8006,
RLA 2019-0013)
(c) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
accept program income and use this
and
other
program
income
to
finance additional housing, commercial, industrial, real estate development and other CDBG eligible activities, and the program income is
appropriated for those purposes.
(d) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into or amend contracts with
the agencies administering the housing, commercial, industrial and real
estate activities that generated program income in an amount not to
exceed
that
generated
program
income and to be paid from the
revolving fund in Fund 14.
(e) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into or amend contracts with
for-profit or non-profit organizations
serving as the fiscal agent for the
various agencies to provide housing,
commercial,
industrial,
and
real
estate development activities.
Section 9. Storefront Renovation
Program.
(a) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into rebate, grant, and/or loan
agreements with Storefront Renovation Program applicants, and contracts for eligible administrative
costs, and expenses to community
development corporations for implementation of the Commercial Revitalization and Storefront Renovation
Programs. The Director is also
authorized to provide compensating
balance
deposits
to
designated
lenders via approved non-profit corporations in return for below market interest rate commercial loans
to be used in the Storefront Renovation Program.
(b) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
Storefront Renovation Program.
The selection of the consultant or
consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Community Development from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by

The City Record
the Director of Community Development for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or
contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Community Development, and certified
by the Director of Finance.
(c) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into contracts with Commercial Revitalization Program applicants.
(d) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
accept program income monies in
repayment from community development corporations under the Storefront Renovation Program and to
utilize this program income, other
Community
Development
Block
Grant program income, and kiosk
program income in a revolving fund,
for Commercial Revitalization and
Storefront
Renovation
program
expenditures.
(e) That the City is authorized to
accept promissory notes, naming the
City of Cleveland as payee, and
mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed
to evidence and secure repayment of
loans, costs, and fees under the
City’s Storefront Renovation Program and Commercial Revitalization Program.
(f) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan, administered by the City
for Commercial Revitalization or
Storefront Renovation.
(g) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
collect from persons or entities with
whom the City is entering into loan
agreements or forebearance agreements an amount equal to any
amount spent for services related to
such
agreements,
such
as
title
searches, credit bureau reports and
document filing fees. Such fees shall
be deposited into Fund No. 14.
(h) That the estimated total of
the contracts, grant agreements,
loan agreements, and rebate agreements authorized is $100,000 payable
from Fund Nos. 14 SF 045, 13 SF 872,
program income, amounts deposited
in the revolving fund established in
this ordinance, and any other prior
years balances. (RQS 8006, RLA
2019-0012)
Section 10. SHAP and CHORE Program.
(a) That Community Development
Block Grant funds in the estimated
amount of $280,000 are appropriated
from Fund No. 14 SF 045, and any
prior year balances and program
income, for costs of the Department
of Aging incurred in Fund 19 associated with conducting the Senior
Homeowners
Assistance
Program
(“SHAP”), and CHORE in conjunction with the Community Development Block Grant Program.
(b) That Emergency Solutions
Grant
funds
in
the
estimated
amount of $60,000 are appropriated
from Fund No. 19 SF 668 for costs
of the Department of Aging incurred
in Fund 19 associated with conducting the Homeless Services Program.
(RQS 8006, RLA 2019-0007)
(c) That prior to expending funds
under this ordinance, the Director of

96

January 30, 2019
Aging and the Director of Community Development shall enter into a
memorandum of understanding for
this program.
Section 11. Emergency Solutions
Program.
(a) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Cuyahoga County and various
non-profit agencies for the implementation of homeless assistance
activities.
(b) The estimated cost of the contracts is $2,271,963 payable from
Fund Nos. 14 SF 045, 19 SF 668, and
any other prior years balances.
(RQS 8006, RLA 2019-0015)
Section 12. Housing Trust Fund
Program.
(a) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with various housing development
entities, or their designees, for the
purpose of implementing the Housing Trust Fund Program.
(b) That eligible activities under
the Housing Trust Fund Program
include new construction, rehabilitation, site preparation, site acquisition, predevelopment activities and
financial assistance to home buyers.
(c) That the estimated cost of the
contracts is $2,688,014 payable from
Fund Nos. 14 SF 045, 19 SF 688, and
any other prior years balances.
(RQS 8006, RLA 2019-0016)
(d) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment of loans
authorized in this ordinance and to
deposit those monies in Fund Nos.
14 and 19, as appropriate, and utilize said repayments and other program income in a revolving fund for
making
additional
expenditures
under this program, and such funds
are hereby appropriated for that
purpose.
(e) That the City is authorized to
accept promissory notes, naming the
City of Cleveland as payee, and
mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed
to evidence and secure repayment of
loans made under this program.
(f) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan administered by the City,
and to charge and accept fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of loan documents, closing, and
servicing costs. Such fees shall be
deposited into Fund No. 14 or 19, as
appropriate. The revenues generated
as a result of charging fees are
appropriated for additional program
and operating expenses for Housing
Trust Fund activities.
Section 13. Home Repair Program.
(a) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
expend funds from CDBG Fund No.
14 SF 045 in the estimated amount
of $1,629,500, and Federal HOME
Program Fund No. 19 SF 667 in the
estimated amount of $284,303, and
any other prior years balances for
the operation of Low Interest Loan
and Grant Home Repair Programs,
including all related services. Programs include: Senior Home Owners
Assistance
Program
(SHAP),
Afford-A-Home
(AAH),
Repair-AHome (RAH), Furnace Repair and
Replacement,
Home
Maintenance
Assistance Program (HMAP), Lead

The City Record

January 30, 2019
Hazard Abatement, Tree Removals,
and Gutter Cleaning Program. (RQS
8006, RLA 2019-0008)
(b) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with various non-profit agencies,
rehabilitation service providers, tenants, homeowners, and entities providing services necessary to process
loans and grants to implement the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs in the City of Cleveland.
(c) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment under
the programs and to utilize the
repayments,
and
other
program
income in a revolving fund for additional expenditures under these programs and administrative expenses,
which
repayments
and
program
income are appropriated for those
purposes.
(d) That the City is authorized to
accept promissory notes, naming the
City of Cleveland as payee, and
mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed
to evidence and secure repayment of
loans made under this program.
(e) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan administered by the City,
and to charge and accept fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of loan documents, closing, and
servicing costs. Such fees shall be
deposited into Fund No. 14 or 19, as
appropriate, and are appropriated
for the purposes of the Low Interest
Loan and Grant Program.
Section 14. General Administration.
(a) That Community Development
Block Grant funds in the estimated
amount of $5,275,941 are appropriated from Fund No. 14 SF 045 and Federal HOME grant funds estimated at
$486,121 are appropriated from Fund
No. 19 SF 667, and any other prior
year balances that may become
available, for the administrative
expenses of the Department of Community Development under the following schedule:
Personnel:
Other:

$5,257,606
$504,456

(b) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
expend funds and enter into contracts for reimbursements of nonprofit, government and for-profit
agencies and sub-recipients for the
costs of audit and other professional services.
(c) That the costs of the contracts
are payable from Fund Nos. 14 SF
045 and 19 SF 667.
Section 15. Neighborhood Development Activities.
(a) That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated below, is authorized to enter into or amend contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations, nonprofit corporations, private for-profit entities, State of Ohio, Cuyahoga
County,
Cuyahoga
Metropolitan
Housing
Authority,
Cleveland
Municipal School District, Regional
Transit Authority, Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District, Cleveland

Metroparks, and such other governmental entities as defined under the
Ohio Revised Code to implement
activities and programs that are eligible under the Community Development Block Grant CDBG Program
and are consistent with the City’s
Community Development objectives
and policies.
(b) That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated below, is authorized to enter into or amend memorandums of understanding with various City departments to implement
activities and programs that are eligible under the CDBG Program and
are consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and
policies.
(c) That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated below, is authorized to expend NDA funds for any
CDBG eligible Programs administered by the Department of Community Development including entering
into contract with rehabilitation service providers, tenants, homeowners,
and entities providing services necessary to process loans and grants
to implement the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Programs, Paint Program
and other programs administered by
the
Department
of
Community
Development.
(d) That prior to entering into or
amending those contracts or memorandums
of
understanding,
or
expending any funds, the Director
of Community Development shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line
item is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for
such activity or program does not
exceed the amount allocated for the
Council member’s ward pursuant to
the relevant Community Development Block Grant plan.
(e) That the cost of the contracts,
memorandums of understanding and
expenditures
for
the
programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development is estimated at $7,430,000.00 payable from
Fund No. 14 SF 045 and any other
prior years NDA balances.
(f) That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into or
amend contracts with the entities
administering the NDA program
that generated program income in
an amount not to exceed that generated
program
income
and
to
expend funds for the programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development that generated
program
income
in
an
amount not to exceed that generated program income all to be paid
from the revolving fund in Fund 14.
(g) That the City is authorized to
accept promissory notes naming the
City of Cleveland as payee, and
mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed
to evidence and secure repayment of
loans made under this program.
(h) That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan administered by the City,
and to charge and accept fees and
to expend such fees to cover costs
incurred in the preparation of loan
documents, closing, and servicing
costs. Such fees shall be deposited
to and expended from Fund No. 14.

97

7
Section 16. That the estimated
budget allocations for the grants is
placed in File No. 142-2019-A. Additional legislation will be introduced
identifying the final budget allocations once they are received by the
City.
Section 17. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 143-2019.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1, 2, and 4 of
Ordinance No. 700-16, passed August
10, 2016, as amended; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new
Sections 3a and 3b, relating to the
public improvement of rehabilitating the storm and sanitary sewer
systems in and around the IX Center and discharge centers and constructing
infrastructure
improvements needed for the rehabilitation
and to authorize a design build contract to make the improvement and
real estate and easement acquisition.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 700-16,
passed August 10, 2016, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1329-18, passed
December 3, 2018, authorized the
Director of Port Control to enter into
a public improvement contract for
the rehabilitation of the storm and
sanitary
sewer
system
in
and
around the IX Center and discharge
centers and constructing infrastructure improvements needed for the
rehabilitation; and
Whereas, the unique design, time,
budgetary, or other material elements of this project can benefit
from the special care, coordination,
and expeditiousness possible by performance of both the professional
design services and the construction
under a design-build approach contract with a single entity; and
Whereas, the Department of Port
Control wishes to amend Ordinance
No. 700-16, to authorize a designbuild contract for the improvement;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1, 2, and 4 of Ordinance No.
Ordinance No. 700-16, passed August
10, 2016, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1329-18, passed December 3, 2018,
are amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of designing
and constructing the rehabilitation
of rehabilitating the storm and sanitary sewer systems in and around
the IX Center and discharge centers,
and
constructing
infrastructure

8
improvements needed for the rehabilitation; and authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire various rights and
interests in real property.
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
designing and constructing the rehabilitation of rehabilitating the storm
and sanitary sewer systems in and
around the IX Center and discharge
centers, and constructing infrastructure improvements needed for the
rehabilitation (the “Improvement”),
for the Department of Port Control,
by one or more design-build contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for
the improvement the person, firm, or
corporation or combination of them
submitting the best proposal, taking
into consideration the engineering
and design, the construction method,
the proposed design and construction costs, the total life-cycle costs,
the qualifications of the proposed
design professional and construction
firm, and the other objectives of the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis. That the selection of
the person, firm, or corporation to
design and construct the Improvement shall be made by the Board of
Control on the nomination of the
Director of Port Control from a list
of qualified and available persons,
firms, or corporations, as may be
determined by the Director of Port
Control after making a full and complete canvass for the purpose of
compiling the list. The Board of
Control shall fix the total compensation to be paid for all design and
construction and procurement necessary for the Improvement. The contract or contracts shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Port Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement, property and interest
acquisition, and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 105,
60 SF 106, 60 SF 115, 60 SF 116, 60
SF 122, 60 SF 126, 60 SF 128, 60 SF
130, 60 SF 141, 60 SF 160, 60 SF 167,
60 SF 168, passenger facility charges
if authorized, from the fund or subfunds to which are credited the proceeds from the sale of bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 666-18, passed
May 21, 2018, if the City sells such
bonds and are authorized for the
purposes of this ordinance, and from
the fund or subfunds to which are
credited the proceeds of any grant
received for this project, Request
No. RQS 3001, RL 2016-64.

The City Record
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1, 2, and 4 of Ordinance
No. Ordinance No. 700-16, passed
August 10, 2016, as amended by Ordinance No. 1329-18, passed December
3, 2018, are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 70016, passed August 10, 2016, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1329-18,
passed December 3, 2018, is supplemented by adding new Sections 3a.
and 3b. to read as follows:
Section 3a. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase,
lease,
or
otherwise
acquire easements, fee interests,
licenses, permits and other rights or
interests in real property necessary
for the Improvement. The consideration to be paid shall not exceed
fair market value.
Section 3b. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to execute on behalf of the City, all documents necessary to acquire rights
or interests in real property and to
employ and pay all fees for title
companies,
surveys,
escrows,
appraisers, and other consultants
and all other costs necessary for the
acquisition or use of the rights or
interests in the property.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 144-2019.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more concession
agreements for the operation of a
first-class food and beverage service
in the Public Auditorium and Conference Center, for a period not to
exceed three years, with two oneyear options to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Public
Works is authorized to enter into
one or more concession agreements
on the basis of competitive proposals, for the operation of a first-class
food and beverage service in the
Public Auditorium and Conference
Center, for a period not to exceed
three
years,
with
two
one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Works. The selection of the concessionaire shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Public
Works.

98

January 30, 2019
Section 2. That the concession
agreements authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees
on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 145-2019.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
exercise the option to renew Contract No. CT 7004 PS 2018-102 with
The Davey Tree Expert Company to
perform
external
landscape
and
maintenance of the Highland Park
Golf Course.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 568-18, passed May 14,
2018, the Director of Public Works
entered into Contract No. CT 7004 PS
2018-102 with the Davey Tree Expert
Company to to perform external
landscape and maintenance of the
Highland Park Golf Course; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 568-18
requires further legislation before
exercising the option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to exercise the option to renew Contract
No. CT 7004 PS 2018-102 with The
Davey Tree Expert Company for
professional
services
to
perform
external landscape and maintenance
of the Highland Park Golf Course.
This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 568-18 to exercise
this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees
on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 146-2019.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
lease certain space located in the
Ticket House Building at League
Park to the Negro League Baseball
Legends of Fame Inc. dba Baseball
Heritage Museum for the purpose of
storing and displaying historical
baseball memorabilia relevant to
League Park, for a period of up to
three
years
with
two
one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Works.

January 30, 2019
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain land and the Ticket
House building at League Park, portions of which are not needed for
the City’s public use; and
Whereas, the Negro League Baseball Legends of Fame Inc. dba Baseball Heritage Museum has proposed
to lease space in the Ticket House
from the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Works is authorized to lease to the
Negro League Baseball Legends of
Fame Inc. dba Baseball Heritage
Museum (“Lessee”), approximately
4,000 square feet of space in the
Ticket House Building at League
Park, which is not needed for the
City’s public use.
Section 2. That the lease may
authorize Lessee to sell museum and
baseball-related merchandise to the
general
public.
All
merchandise
shall be related to the Museum and
its mission which is to preserve and
present the history of diversity in
baseball by entertaining, educating,
and enlightening the visiting public
about the multicultural heritage of
baseball and the values it represents. Any lease agreement shall
provide that the net proceeds from
the sale of the merchandise will be
used by the Lessee to offset Museum operating expenses.
Section 3. That the term of the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed three years with
two one-year options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Works.
Section 4. That the space authorized by this ordinance shall be
leased at a rental of $1.00 and other
valuable consideration, which is
determined to be fair market value,
exclusive of utilities.
Section 5. That the lease may
authorize
the
Lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 6. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Works, the Director of Law,
and other appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute any other
documents and certificates, and take
any other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal
Services
and
Properties,
Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 147-2019.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary to manage the Gateway East
Garage, for a period up to three
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public
Works
is
authorized
to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to manage the Gateway East Garage for a period not
to exceed three years.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Works from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Works for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Works, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the fees collected from the operation of the Gateway East Garage.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees
on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 149-2019.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Griffin, Kelley and McCormack.
An
emergency
resolution
reaffirming this Council’s and the
City’s commitment to addressing
childhood lead poisoning and supporting the formation of the Lead
Safe Cleveland Coalition to confront
lead poisoning in the City and to
effectively advance lead safe efforts
through implementation of a Lead
Safe Solution.
Whereas, both this Council and
the Jackson administration understand the urgency of confronting
childhood lead poisoning in Cleveland and recognize it is unacceptable for any child to have lead poisoning; and

99

9
Whereas, for the past 12 months,
this Council and the Jackson Administration have been working with
public and private institutions, philanthropic and non-profit organizations, and other community stakeholders to formulate a comprehensive,
sustainable,
preventative
approach to the lead crisis that will
provide enforceable, affordable and
lasting solutions; and
Whereas, in June, 2018, a delegation comprised of the above entities
attended the National Environmental Health Association’s 2018 Annual Educational Conference and HUD
Healthy Homes Conference for indepth discussions with national lead
experts and to gather information
on local and national best practices
for
lead
poisoning
prevention,
awareness, and education; and
Whereas, this same delegation
participated
in
the
ClevelandRochester Learning Exchange in
Rochester, New York, to learn about
Rochester's success in reducing
lead poisoning by over 80% in about
10 years; and
Whereas, this Council and the
Jackson administration realize that
lead poisoning is a complex, systemic problem that requires a collaborative effort to correct; because
no single entity can successfully
tackle the lead issue, Council and
the Jackson Administration will continue to work with other community stakeholders to identify policy,
system, and program changes to better prevent lead poisoning; and
Whereas, to this end, a collaborative Lead Safe Cleveland Coalition
has been formed that includes representatives from this Council, the
Mayor
of
Cleveland,
the
City’s
Departments
of
Public
Health,
Building and Housing, and Community Development, and members of
many public and private institutions
and organizations including: Cuyahoga County Board of Health and
Department of Development, Case
Western Reserve University, the
Cleveland
Foundation,
Enterprise
Community Partners, Environmental
Health
Watch,
Federal
Reserve
Bank of Cleveland, the Bruening
Foundation, the George Gund Foundation, Mt. Sinai Health Care Foundation, Saint Luke’s Foundation, Sisters of Charity Foundation of Cleveland, Third Federal Foundation,
United Way of Greater Cleveland,
the Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland Metropolitan School District, Concerned
Citizens Organized Against Lead,
Legal Aid Society of Cleveland, the
MetroHealth
System,
SherwinWilliams Company, Sisters of Charity Health System, University Hospitals, UH Rainbow Babies & Children’s Hospital, and Zion Hill Missionary Baptist Church; and
Whereas, the Lead Safe Cleveland
Coalition will work toward a Lead
Safe
Solution:
a
cost-effective
approach that recognizes that homes
built before 1978, like the majority
of homes in Cleveland, can be made
lead safe by using interim controls
or safety measures, to remediate
lead and to eliminate the possibility of poisoning; and
Whereas, the Lead Safe Solution
means an effective collaboration of
smart, adaptable public policies,
knowledgeable agencies and systems willing to collaborate, proven
community programs, and public

The City Record

10
sector and private sector accountability; the Lead Safe Solution will
provide a comprehensive, sustainable and preventative approach to
address lead poisoning; and
Whereas, the Lead Safe Cleveland
Coalition will update Cleveland’s
existing lead hazard ordinances by
introducing comprehensive legislation that addresses four key areas:
prevention,
screening,
treatments
and interventions, and education
and outreach; this legislation will
address childhood lead poisoning in
ways that are sustainable, enforceable, and affordable, based on what
has been learned through continued
exchanges with experts; and
Whereas, the Lead Safe Cleveland
Coalition will hold a Cleveland Lead
Summit and will invite local and
national experts, landlords, media,
advocates,
community
members,
elected officials, and others to learn
about strategies to prevent lead poisoning, to launch an educational
campaign, to work on the Lead Safe
Solution together and to commit to
a common goal to decrease childhood lead poisoning by 90% in 10
years; and
Whereas, a Cleveland Lead Safe
Home Fund will be created to support
the
Coalition’s
work
with
resources from public-private partnerships between the City, philanthropic and corporate sectors; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council reaffirms its and the City’s commitment to addressing childhood lead
poisoning and supports the formation of a Lead Safe Cleveland Coalition to confront lead poisoning in
the City and to effectively advance
lead safe efforts through implementation of the Lead Safe Solution.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred
to
Committee
on
Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 148-2019.
By Council Members McCormack,
Cleveland, and B. Jones.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Hermes Chili Bowl
Classic 5K on February 23, 2019,
managed by Hermes Sports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves

the holding of the Hermes Chili
Bowl Classic 5K on February 23,
2019, start: Chester Avenue at the
Hofbrauhaus
heading
east;
turn
right onto East 55th Street; turn
right onto Euclid Avenue heading
west; turn right onto East 18th
Street; turn left onto Chester Avenue
to finish at the Hofbrauhaus; provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 150-2019.
By Council Member B. Jones.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New D5A Liquor Permit at
6955 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New D5A
Liquor Permit at American Hospitality Management, Inc., DBA Tru
By Hilton, 6955 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permit No.
01630200005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

100

January 30, 2019
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New D5A
Liquor Permit at American Hospitality Management, Inc., DBA Tru
By Hilton, 6955 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permit No.
01630200005; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 151-2019.
By Council Member Bishop.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
9302 Miles Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New C2
Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #5778, 9302 Miles Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit No.
26312750205; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of

January 30, 2019
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Family Dollar
Stores of Ohio, Inc., DBA Family
Dollar, #5778, 9302 Miles Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit No.
26312750205; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 152-2019.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 1846
Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Shiva Shakti,
LLC, DBA K & Y Convenient, 1846
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44115, Permit No. 80939850005 to Maa
I Shree, LLC, DBA 1900 Food & Beverage, 1846 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permit No. 5376710;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or

The City Record
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Shiva Shakti,
LLC, DBA K & Y Convenient, 1846
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44115, Permit No. 80939850005 to Maa
I Shree, LLC, DBA 1900 Food & Beverage, 1846 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permit No. 5376710;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 153-2019.
By Council Member B. Jones.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New D1 Liquor Permit at
9200 Wade Park Avenue, Unit A
30/40 only.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for a New D1

101

11
Liquor Permit at M & A Foods, Inc.,
DBA M & A Foods, 9200 Wade Park
Avenue, Unit a 30/40 only, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permit No. 5377788;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New D1
Liquor Permit at M & A Foods, Inc.,
DBA M & A Foods, 9200 Wade Park
Avenue, Unit a 30/40 only, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permit No. 5377788;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.

12
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1400-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Great Lakes Observing System
for professional services necessary
to
lease,
deploy,
maintain,
and
retrieve two buoys and sondes, and
for the regular calibration, monitoring, collecting, and measuring of
Lake Erie water quality, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1406-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Hutabut LLC for professional
services necessary for the design,
production, acquisition, construction,
and installation of public art which
will create a new entrance into the
R.J. Taylor Park near the Nottingham Water Treatment Plant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The City Record
passed March 30, 2015, relating to
compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
13. Nays 3. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 13.
Nays 3.
Those voting yea: Council Members Bishop, Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Griffin, Hairston, B. Jones, J.
Jones, Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Santana, and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members
Kazy,
McCormack,
and
Polensek.
Ord. No. 1474-18.
By Council Members Johnson and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more contracts
with Link2Park, Inc. dba Linkology
for professional services necessary
to provide software, hardware, training, technical support, and maintenance, for the Parking Access and
Revenue Control System for Willard
Parking Garage, Gateway Parking
Garage and the West Side Market
parking lots, for the Division of
Parking Facilities, Department of
Public Works, for a period of three
years, with one two-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Public Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services
and
Properties,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 66-2019.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 51 and 52 of Ordinance No.
323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as
amended, relating to compensation
for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1467-18.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into a Joint Registration
Agreement with The Medical Center
Company
of
Cleveland;
and
to
accept payments under the agreement for duties performed by the
Division of Cleveland Public Power.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, at the end, strike
the period and insert “, for a period
of two years with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which
requires additional legislation.”; and
in Section 1, line 3, after “requirements” strike the period and insert
“, for a period of two years with two
one-year options to renew, the first
of which requires additional legislation.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 67-2019.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with International Association
of Fire Fighters, Local 93 - ARFF;
and to amend Section 29 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30,
2015, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1473-18.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 53 of Ordinance No. 323-15,

Ord. No. 68-2019.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to

102

January 30, 2019
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. CT 6007 PS 2017-251 with Cuyahoga County for the County Sheriff’s
Department to house and provide
services for City prisoners in order
to add an additional limited category to the definition of City prisoners for which the City will pay the
County’s prisoner per diem amount.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 69-2019.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
with the Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s
Office and/or the Cuyahoga County
Medical Examiner’s Office to reimburse Cuyahoga County for City’s
share of costs for the Automated
Fingerprint Identification System
(“AFIS”), for a period up to two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 70-2019.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
with Hillard Heintze for professional services necessary to conduct
Phase 3 of the review of civilian
complaints filed during 2015, 2016,
and 2017 in the Office of Professional Standards backlog review.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. Strike the title and Section 1 in
their entirety and insert:
“An emergency ordinance Authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to enter into amendments to Contract No. PS 2018-179 with Hillard
Heintze, LLC, to provide additional
services relating to civilian complaints filed with the City’s Office
of Professional Standards in 2015,
2016, and 2017.
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into amendments to Contract No. PS
2018-179 with Hillard Heintze to provide additional services to conduct
a comprehensive evidentiary review
of all complaints filed during 2015,
2016, and 2017 The costs of the contract amendments shall be paid from
Fund No. 01-6008-6320, RQS 6008, RL
2018-76.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 74-2019.
By Council Members B. Jones,
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).

January 30, 2019
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works
and/or Capital Projects to enter into
an agreement with the Cleveland
Indians Inc. to allow and accept
improvements at Luke Easter Park
and League Park as a gift to the
City; determining the method of
making the public improvement of
designing and constructing the new
improvements and authorizing contracts with the Cleveland Indians
and the Cleveland Indians Charities
for that purpose; to apply for and
accept grants and gifts from various
entities; and authorizing the direct
employment of necessary labor, for
the Department of Public Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Capital Projects, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 80-2019.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the third option to renew
Contract No. CT 3001 LS 2014-20 with
Weather Forecast, Inc. of Ohio to
provide for the use and occupancy
of space located in the passenger
terminal building at Burke Lakefront Airport for weather forecasting activities.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 81-2019.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the third option to renew
Contract No. CT 3001 LS 2014-28 with
United Airlines, Inc. to provide for
the use and occupancy of office and
warehouse space located in the
South Cargo Facility at 6090 Cargo
Road at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for the purposes of
operating an air cargo facility.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 82-2019.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease By Way of Concession with Alclear, LLC, dba as
CLEAR for the installation, maintenance, and operation of up to fifteen
kiosks located at the security checkpoints and for administrative support space at Cleveland Hopkins

The City Record
International Airport, for a period of
five years, with one five-year option
to renew, which shall require additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
13. Nays 3. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 13.
Nays 3.
Those voting yea: Council Members Bishop, Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Griffin, Hairston, B. Jones, J.
Jones, Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Santana, and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members
Kazy,
McCormack,
and
Polensek.
Ord. No. 83-2019.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
BP Products North America, Inc. for
the use and occupancy of Cityowned property commonly known as
the North Fuel Farm at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, for
the purpose of operating an aviation
fuel storage and handling facility,
for a period of two years, with three
one-year options to renew, the first
of which shall require additional
legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 84-2019.
By Council Members Cleveland
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
AvAirPros Services, Inc. for the
lease of certain space in the terminal building at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport for the purpose of operating and maintaining
the inline baggage handling system,
for the Department of Port Control,
for a period of two years, with three
one-year options to renew, the first
of which shall require additional
legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance, when amended,
as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 12, strike
“$539,096.80” and insert “$503,674.40”;
and in line 13, strike “$44,924.73” and
insert “$41,972.87”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 114-2019.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into
an
agreement
with
The

103

13
Batchelder Company for professional strategic government affairs consulting services for Cleveland City
Council.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 115-2019.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Guy Gadomski, CPA to provide professional
budget analysis and auditing services necessary for Cleveland City
Council.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 116-2019.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with NetX Internet LLC to provide wireless internet
service to Cleveland City Council.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 117-2019.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with On Technology Partners for the professional
services necessary to advise and
assist in the maintenance and performance of computer technology
projects and to provide specific computer technology services for Cleveland City Council.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 118-2019.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with The Project
Group for professional assistance in
investigating utility–related matters
pertaining to the Divisions of Cleveland
Public
Power,
Water
and
Water Pollution Control for Cleveland City Council.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 121-2019.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to
consent to assignment of Contract
No. 55936, as amended, from Omni
Media Cleveland, Inc. to IKE Smart
City, LLC; and to enter into an
amendment to the Agreement.

The City Record

14
Approved by Directors of City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In the fourth WHEREAS clause,
strike line 2 in its entirety and
insert:
“Kiosks with up to thirty
(30) IKE Kiosks and up to thirty
(30) Transit Pillars, subject to availability of adequate power from
Cleveland Public Power,”.
2. In the ninth WHEREAS clause,
line 1 after “cause”, insert “IKE to
contract with”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
REOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 64-2019.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting the local Complete Count Committee for the 2020 Census that will
be established by Council and the
Jackson administration.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 120-2019.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution supporting Play it Forward Cleveland!, an
instrument donation drive for Cleveland’s children.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Keane, the absence of Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland is hereby
authorized.
Seconded by Council
Member Hairston.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:05 p.m. to meet on Monday, February 4, 2019, at 7:00 p.m. in the
Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
January 23, 2019
The meeting of the Board of Control convened in the Mayor’s office
on Wednesday, January 23, 2019 at
10:42 a.m. with Director Langhenry
presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Davis,
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath,
Menesse, West, Ebersole, McNamara,
and Donald.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Kennedy.
Others: Tiffany White Johnson,
Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
Melissa Burrows, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On
motions,
the
resolutions
attached were adopted, except as
may be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 24-19.
By Directors Cox and Dumas.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1222-18,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on November 19, 2018,
authorizes the Director of Public
Works and the Director of Finance
to employ by contract one or more
temporary employment agencies to
provide professional services to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for the Department of Public
Works and the Project Clean program, and for the various departments of the City, for a period up
to one year; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that under the authority of Ordinance No. 1222-18, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
November
19,
2018,
Snider-Blake
Business Service, Inc. is selected
upon nomination of the Director of
Public Works and the Director of
Finance from a list of firms determined after a full and complete canvass as the temporary employment
agency to be employed by contract
for the purpose of supplementing
regularly employed staff of several
departments of the City of Cleveland
to perform the professional services
necessary to supply temporary and
seasonal personnel for the Department of Public Works and the Project Clean Program and for the various departments of the City.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Works and the
Director of Finance are authorized
to enter into a written contract or
contracts with Snider-Blake Business Service, Inc. (“Agency”), based
on its December 7, 2018 proposal, to
supply temporary and seasonal personnel for seasonal programs for the
Department of Public Works including the Project Clean Program and
the various departments of the City
during the 12-month period beginning upon execution of a contract,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and shall
include such additional provisions
as that director considers necessary
to benefit and protect the interest.
The fees for services to be performed under the contract(s) authorized, as stated in the Agency’s proposal, including charges for drug
testing and criminal background
checks, shall be:

104

January 30, 2019
POSITIONS SUPPLIED FEE
Department of
Public Works
Aides:

$13.09 per hour but,
if the City’s Fair
Employment Living
Wage
increases
during
the
term,
the fee shall be an
amount
equal
to
130.9% of the Fair
Employment Wage
determined
under
Section
189.02
of
the Codified Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976
(‘C.O.’)

Seasonal
Supervisors:

$14.24 per hour but,
if the City’s Fair
Employment Living
Wage
increases
during
the
term,
the fee shall be an
amount
equal
to
129.45% of the Fair
Employment Wage
determined
under
Section 189.02 C.O.,
plus $0.25 per hour.

POSITIONS SUPPLIED FEE
Department of Finance
The fee for each temporary and
seasonal personnel position required
for the various Departments of the
City during the term of the contract
shall be an amount equal to 129.4%
of the wage determined for that
occupation by the Bureau of Wage
Statistics’ current published Metropolitan and Nonmetropolitan Area
Occupational
Employment
and
Wage Estimates for Cleveland-Elyria-Mentor OH, but in no event shall
be less than an amount equal to
129.4% of the Fair Employment Living Wage determined under Section
189.02 C.O.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors is approved:
NAME
AMOUNT

CERT STATUS
PERCENT

Employment Specialists
International, Inc.
$1,000,000.00

CSB
25.3%

Quick Employment, LLC.
$150,000.00

CSB
0.3%

Premier Talent Solutions
$1,000,000.00

N/A
0%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath,
Menesse,
West, Ebersole, McNamara, and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Kennedy.
Resolution No. 25-19.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1176-18,
passed November 19, 2018 by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, by and at the
direction of the City Board of Control, to sell City-owned property
located at 7654 Broadway Avenue,
Permanent
Parcel
No.
133-20-036,
found and determined to be not
needed for City public use and more
fully described in the ordinance, to
7710 Broadway Avenue Propco LLC,
or its designee, for redevelopment,

January 30, 2019
at a price determined to be fair market value by the City Board of Control; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Ordinance No. 1176-18, passed
November 19, 2018 by the Cleveland
City Council, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is directed
to convey a fee simple interest in
the aforementioned City-owned property located on Permanent Parcel
No.
133-20-036,
as
more
fully
described in the ordinance, to 7710
Broadway Avenue Propco LLC, or
its designee, at a price of $38,000.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor is requested to execute and
deliver the official deed of the City
of Cleveland conveying in fee simple the aforementioned City-owned
property, which deed shall contain
such additional terms and provisions
as the Director of Law shall determine is required and necessary to
protect the City’s interests.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath,
Menesse,
West, Ebersole, McNamara, and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Kennedy.
Resolution No. 26-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 106-02-118 located at 1335 Russell
Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development, to sell
Land Reutilization Program parcels
when certain specified conditions
have been met; and
Whereas, Johnathan Duprey has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Johnathan Duprey
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 106-02-118, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the

The City Record
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath,
Menesse,
West, Ebersole, McNamara, and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Kennedy.
Resolution No. 27-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 126-05-037 located at 8723 Capitol
Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Dionne Percy has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Dionne Percy for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 126-05-037 located at
8723 Capitol Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath,
Menesse,
West, Ebersole, McNamara, and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Kennedy.
Resolution No. 28-19.
By Director Menesse.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 130-07-046 located at 3234 East
130th Street; and

105

15
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Marnetta Stone has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 4 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Marnetta Stone
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 130-07-046 located
at 3234 East 130th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath,
Menesse,
West, Ebersole, McNamara, and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Kennedy.
Resolution No. 29-19.
By Director Ebersole.
Whereas, that under the authority
of Section 183.021(b)(11) of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by
the Director of Economic Development is authorized to acquire property from third parties at a purchase
price determined to be fair market
value by the Board of Control, to
hold in the Industrial Commercial
Land Bank; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Economic
Development, to purchase Permanent Parcel Nos. 126-28-021 and 12628-022, located at Holton Avenue, to
hold in the Industrial-Commercial
Land Bank, at a price of $20,000.00
for both parcels, which amount is
determined to be fair market value.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Cox,
Gordon,
McGrath,
Menesse,
West, Ebersole, McNamara, and Donald.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Kennedy.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

The City Record

16
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information

January 30, 2019

previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.

Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.

Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.

Bank statements (Within last three
months).

EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination
as
soon
as
the
commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.

School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.

Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

____________

Junior Clerk

Exam
Type

9

WR

10

WR/TY Safety Telephone
Operator
Open

2018-127A
WR/TY Senior Data
Conversion
Operator
11

WR

NOTE: YOU ARE NOT APPLYING
FOR AN IMMEDIATE JOB OPENING.
YOU ARE APPLYING TO TAKE AN
EXAMINATION WHICH WILL BE
USED TO CREATE AN ELIGIBLE
LIST FOR THIS JOB CLASSIFICATION. THAT LIST WILL BE USED
FOR FUTURE HIRES IN THIS JOB
CLASSIFICATION.
SALARY: The prevailing salary for
this position as established by Ordinance of the Council of the City of
Cleveland is $12.83 - $15.46 per Hour.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST: Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exams via email.
NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, resumes and any
other required documents must be
uploaded and included with your
Application when it is submitted.
Applications without the required
documents will be rejected.
Duties:

ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2019
Filing Beginning 2/1/2019

Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

NOTE: All correspondence, notifications, and certifications will be made
with applicants via email. Any
updates of email or your online profile must be made at: CS@city.cleveland.oh.us.

furniture,

Notarized letters or affidavits.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

2. Proof of Residency (as described
herein), which is only required if the
applicant is seeking residency credit
for the examination; and
3. DD-214 or other materials to prove
veteran’s status (as described herein)
only required if the applicant is seeking veteran’s preference points.

Open

Open

Sewer Maintenance
Unit Leader
Open

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 009
JUNIOR CLERK (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio, of an open competitive
examination for the above classification.
FILING OF APPLICATION:
Application must be made electronically through the City of Cleveland’s
web site:
www.governmentjobs.com/careers/c
leveland
No other form or method of application will be accepted. Absolutely no
paper applications will be accepted.
THE ELECTRONIC APPLICATION
PERIOD IS FROM 12:01 A.M. ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019 UNTIL
11:59 PM. ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2019. NOTE: APPLICATIONS
WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED AFTER
11:59 PM ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2019.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
IMPORTANT NOTE: At the time of
submitting an application, copies of
the following items are required to be
uploaded as attachments to that
application:
1. Proof of Education (as provided
herein);

106

Under immediate supervision, does
clerical work of a routine nature. Performs related duties as required.
TYPICAL TASKS: Verifies files and
records. Checks lists, bills, and requisitions for accuracy. Files records,
bills, receipts, certificates, and correspondence. Prepares bills, cards, and
tallies. Records address changes, statistics, and operating data. Records
stock and material data. Types lists
and payrolls. Stamps forms, payrolls,
and records. Handles incoming and
outgoing mail. Delivers mail, messages, and reports. Traces records
and information. Sorts mail, invoices,
requisitions, and correspondence.
Operates office machines. Cleans and
oils office machines. Handles and
arranges stock. Assists at information desk and counter. Makes and
answers work-related telephone calls.
Follows procedures, assigning each
incident the appropriate coding and
prioritization. When a response is not
needed, makes referrals as needed to
the caller. Makes computer inquiries
into the CAD system or other database utilized by the department, as
needed. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
Minimum Qualifications:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in an office setting with a

January 30, 2019
working knowledge of Microsoft
Office is required. Must be able to lift
and carry at least 30 pounds.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
Any applicant that willfully provides
any false document, statement, or certification in regard to any test will be
terminated from all processing,
removed from any eligible list, and
may face possible criminal prosecution.
VETERANS’ PREFERENCE
Veterans’ preference will be awarded,
when applicable, to eligible veterans
in accordance with Civil Service
Rules 4.40E, 4.40F and 4.40G. Proof of
active service or a DD Form 214, must
be presented to the Commission at the
time of filing application for the
examination in which credit is sought
in order to qualify for veterans’ credit. If the applicant has received an
honorable discharge or a general discharge under honorable conditions
that applicant shall receive an additional five (5) points added to their
raw score on the examination.
RESIDENCY CREDIT
In accordance with the Charter of the
City of Cleveland: A person who has
had as his/her primary residence in
the City of Cleveland for at least one
year at the time of filing a Civil Service application, and desires to take
an entry-level Civil Service examination, shall, if a passing grade on the
written examination is attained, have
ten (10) points added to his/her passing score.
In order to receive residency credit,
applicants must present the originals
OR LEGIBLE COPIES of 4 different
proofs of residency from ONE YEAR
AGO* and 4 different proofs of residency that are CURRENT** (A total
of EIGHT documents) for verification at the time of filing. “Different”
means that an applicant can provide
(for example) a bank statement from
a year ago, and a current statement
for the same bank account, but cannot
provide multiple statements from the
same account for different months to
satisfy the 4 proofs requirement.

The City Record
* “ONE YEAR AGO” SHALL BE ONE
YEAR PREVIOUS TO DATE OF FILING. For example, if you are filing for
the examination in February of 2019
you must present 4 different documents dated December of 2017, or January or February of 2018.
** “CURRENT” SHALL BE WITH IN
THE LAST THREE MONTHS. For
example, if you are filing for the
examination in February of 2019 you
must present 4 different documents
dated December of 2018, or January or
February of 2019.
NOTE: IF CREDITORS ARE PAID
ONLINE, A COPY OF BILL IS TO BE
PRINTED
SHOWING
THE
ADDRESS OF THE APPLICANT.
THE BILL MUST HAVE THE DATE
VISIBLE.
NOTE: Applicants who are under the
age of 25 who do not have sufficient
bills or items in their own name may
provide one or more proof documents
bearing their own name and Cleveland address, and supplement it with
the additional required proofs from a
spouse or blood relative with whom
they reside; provided that such other
person also provides a notarized
statement that the applicant has
resided with them at that address for
more than a year prior to the date of
application and provides the missing
documentation in their own name
with their Cleveland address.
THE
COMMISSION
WILL
NOT ENTERTAIN APPEALS FOR
VETERANS’
PREFERENCE
OR
RESIDENCY CREDIT AFTER THE
APPLICANT HAS FILED HIS/HER
APPLICATION. THE DECISION OF
THE COMMISSION IS FINAL.
ANYONE
WHO
WISHES
TO
REQUEST AN ACCOMMODATION
MUST DO SO AT THE TIME OF FILING. THE COMMISSION WILL CONTACT THE INDIVIDUAL CONCERNING
SUCH
ACCOMMODATION
PRIOR TO THE EXAMINATION.
THE COMMISSION MAY REFUSE TO
PROVIDE SUCH ACCOMMODATION
IF IT IS NOT REASONABLE OR
WOULD CONSTITUTE AN UNDUE
HARDSHIP. CURRENT (WITHIN
ONE YEAR) DOCUMENTATION SUPPORTING THE NEED FOR THE
REQUESTED ACCOMMODATION IS
REQUIRED. SUCH DOCUMENTATION SHOULD BE SUBMITTED AT
THE TIME OF FILING.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 010
SAFETY TELEPHONE OPERATOR
(OPEN)

17
THE ELECTRONIC APPLICATION
PERIOD IS FROM 12:01 A.M. ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019 UNTIL
11:59 PM. ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2019. NOTE: APPLICATIONS
WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED AFTER
11:59 PM ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2019.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
IMPORTANT NOTE: At the time of
submitting an application, copies of
the following items are required to be
uploaded as attachments to that
application:
1. Proof of Education (as provided
herein);
2. Driver’s License or Government
Issued ID;
3. Proof of Residency (as described
herein), which is only required if the
applicant is seeking residency credit
for the examination; and
4. DD-214 or other materials to prove
veteran’s status (as described herein)
only required if the applicant is seeking veteran’s preference points.
NOTE: All correspondence, notifications, and certifications will be made
with applicants via email. Any
updates of email or your online profile must be made at: CS@city.cleveland.oh.us.
NOTE: YOU ARE NOT APPLYING
FOR AN IMMEDIATE JOB OPENING.
YOU ARE APPLYING TO TAKE AN
EXAMINATION WHICH WILL BE
USED TO CREATE AN ELIGIBLE
LIST FOR THIS JOB CLASSIFICATION. THAT LIST WILL BE USED
FOR FUTURE HIRES IN THIS JOB
CLASSIFICATION.
SALARY: The prevailing salary for
this position as established by Ordinance of the Council of the City of
Cleveland is $24,425.64 - $35,180.95 per
year.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST: 100% of
Final Grade.
TYPING TEST: This portion is
Pass/Fail and will be utilized to
determine if candidates meet this
minimum qualification. Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exams.
NOTE: CANDIDATES MUST BE
ABLE TO TYPE 30 WPM (Gross
words per minute minus errors).
FAILURE TO OBTAIN 30 WPM
MEANS THAT THE CANDIDATE
WILL RECEIVE A FINAL GRADE
OF ZERO

Such proofs include:
‚
‚
‚
‚
‚

Driver’s License
Bank Statements
Utility Bills
Mortgage or Lease Agreement
Bills from creditors not listed
above
‚ Other Postmarked mail such as
magazines with name and mailing
label
attached,
organization
newsletters, medical/dental bills,
voter registration card, or motor
vehicle registration
‚ Insurance Statement (Home insurance, rental insurance, car insurance or other insurance documents).

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio, of an open competitive
examination for the above classification.
FILING OF APPLICATION:
Application must be made electronically through the City of Cleveland’s
web site:
www.governmentjobs.com/careers/c
leveland
No other form or method of application will be accepted. Absolutely no
paper applications will be accepted.

107

NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, resumes and any
other required documents must be
uploaded and included with your
Application when it is submitted.
Applications without the required
documents will be rejected.
Duties:
Answers emergency and non-emergency telephone calls from citizens,
elicits pertinent information, analyzes situations to determine problem, and makes sound decisions as to
the appropriate response. Learns the
proper procedures for handling various call types. Maintains familiarity

The City Record

18
with the streets of the City and the
various social agencies available to
assist those in need. Generates incidents using the Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) system, following proper procedures and assigning each
incident an appropriate prioritization
level. Contacts other public safety
entities, city departments, and external agencies as needed. Operates the
necessary computer equipment used
in the Communications center. Operates the Emergency 911 telephone
equipment and the associated software used by the Department of Public Safety. Is familiar with applicable
state and municipal ordinances. Performs any other duties as directed by
proper authority. TYPICAL TASKS:
Answers incoming calls placed to 911
or non-emergency telephone lines.
Determines nature of problem and,
when appropriate, connects caller to
another agency for handling Generates a CAD incident for Public Safety
response by entering pertinent information relative to the incident into
the computerized dispatch system.
Follows procedures, assigning each
incident the appropriate coding and
prioritization. When a response is not
needed, makes referrals as needed to
the caller. Makes computer inquiries
into the CAD system or other database utilized by the department, as
needed. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
Minimum Qualifications:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License or ID is required. Must
be able to type at least 30 words per
minute. Because this is a Police/Civilian position, candidates MUST BE
ABLE TO PASS A CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECK as well as a drug
test and physical. Must pass any certification testing required to perform
the duties of the position within six
months of the date of hire. Certifications include those required to access
the national and state criminal databases (LEADS, NCIC) as well as a 40hour public safety telecommunicator
course. Instruction in these or any
other job-specific certifications will
be provided as part of employee training.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
Any applicant that willfully provides
any false document, statement, or certification in regard to any test will be
terminated from all processing,
removed from any eligible list, and
may face possible criminal prosecution.

VETERANS’ PREFERENCE
Veterans’ preference will be awarded,
when applicable, to eligible veterans
in accordance with Civil Service
Rules 4.40E, 4.40F and 4.40G. Proof of
active service or a DD Form 214, must
be presented to the Commission at the
time of filing application for the
examination in which credit is sought
in order to qualify for veterans’ credit. If the applicant has received an
honorable discharge or a general discharge under honorable conditions
that applicant shall receive an additional five (5) points added to their
raw score on the examination.
RESIDENCY CREDIT
In accordance with the Charter of the
City of Cleveland: A person who has
had as his/her primary residence in
the City of Cleveland for at least one
year at the time of filing a Civil Service application, and desires to take
an entry-level Civil Service examination, shall, if a passing grade on the
written examination is attained, have
ten (10) points added to his/her passing score.
In order to receive residency credit,
applicants must present the originals
OR LEGIBLE COPIES of 4 different
proofs of residency from ONE YEAR
AGO* and 4 different proofs of residency that are CURRENT** (A total
of EIGHT documents) for verification at the time of filing. “Different”
means that an applicant can provide
(for example) a bank statement from
a year ago, and a current statement
for the same bank account, but cannot
provide multiple statements from the
same account for different months to
satisfy the 4 proofs requirement.

January 30, 2019
NOTE: Applicants who are under the
age of 25 who do not have sufficient
bills or items in their own name may
provide one or more proof documents
bearing their own name and Cleveland address, and supplement it with
the additional required proofs from a
spouse or blood relative with whom
they reside; provided that such other
person also provides a notarized
statement that the applicant has
resided with them at that address for
more than a year prior to the date of
application and provides the missing
documentation in their own name
with their Cleveland address.
THE
COMMISSION
WILL
NOT ENTERTAIN APPEALS FOR
VETERANS’
PREFERENCE
OR
RESIDENCY CREDIT AFTER THE
APPLICANT HAS FILED HIS/HER
APPLICATION. THE DECISION OF
THE COMMISSION IS FINAL.
ANYONE
WHO
WISHES
TO
REQUEST AN ACCOMMODATION
MUST DO SO AT THE TIME OF FILING. THE COMMISSION WILL CONTACT THE INDIVIDUAL CONCERNING
SUCH
ACCOMMODATION
PRIOR TO THE EXAMINATION.
THE COMMISSION MAY REFUSE TO
PROVIDE SUCH ACCOMMODATION
IF IT IS NOT REASONABLE OR
WOULD CONSTITUTE AN UNDUE
HARDSHIP. CURRENT (WITHIN
ONE YEAR) DOCUMENTATION SUPPORTING THE NEED FOR THE
REQUESTED ACCOMMODATION IS
REQUIRED. SUCH DOCUMENTATION SHOULD BE SUBMITTED AT
THE TIME OF FILING.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 2018-127A

Such proofs include:

SENIOR DATA CONVERSION OPERATOR (OPEN)

‚
‚
‚
‚
‚

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio, of an open competitive
examination for the above classification.

Driver’s License
Bank Statements
Utility Bills
Mortgage or Lease Agreement
Bills from creditors not listed
above
‚ Other Postmarked mail such as
magazines with name and mailing
label
attached,
organization
newsletters, medical/dental bills,
voter registration card, or motor
vehicle registration
‚ Insurance Statement (Home insurance, rental insurance, car insurance or other insurance documents).
* “ONE YEAR AGO” SHALL BE ONE
YEAR PREVIOUS TO DATE OF FILING. For example, if you are filing for
the examination in February of 2019
you must present 4 different documents dated December of 2017, or January or February of 2018.
** “CURRENT” SHALL BE WITH IN
THE LAST THREE MONTHS. For
example, if you are filing for the
examination in February of 2019 you
must present 4 different documents
dated December of 2018, or January or
February of 2019.
NOTE: IF CREDITORS ARE PAID
ONLINE, A COPY OF BILL IS TO BE
PRINTED
SHOWING
THE
ADDRESS OF THE APPLICANT.
THE BILL MUST HAVE THE DATE
VISIBLE.

108

FILING OF APPLICATION:
Application must be made electronically through the City of Cleveland’s
web site:
www.governmentjobs.com/careers/c
leveland
No other form or method of application will be accepted. Absolutely no
paper applications will be accepted.
THE ELECTRONIC APPLICATION
PERIOD IS FROM 12:01 A.M. ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019 UNTIL
11:59 PM. ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2019. NOTE: APPLICATIONS
WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED AFTER
11:59 PM ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2019.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
PLEASE NOTE: THOSE PERSONS
WHO HAVE ALREADY APPLIED
FOR THIS EXAM BUT HAVE NOT
YET TESTED DO NOT NEED TO
FILE AGAIN.
IMPORTANT NOTE: At the time of
submitting an application, copies of
the following items are required to be

The City Record

January 30, 2019

19

that

Driver’s License is required. Must be
able to type 45 words per minute.

1. Proof of Education (as provided
herein);
2. DD-214 or other materials to prove
veteran’s status (as described herein)
only required if the applicant is seeking veteran’s preference points
3. A valid Driver’s License (as provided herein)
*These items should be uploaded
under the “Attachments” tab in your
application.

NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.

uploaded as
application:

attachments

to

NOTE: ONCE YOU SUBMIT YOUR
APPLICATION, FURTHER CHANGES
TO THAT APPLICATION WILL NOT
BE
PERMITTED.
All
additional
attachments, correspondence, notifications, and certifications will be made
with applicants via email. Any updates
of email or your online profile must be
made at: CS@city.cleveland.oh.us.
NOTE: YOU ARE NOT APPLYING
FOR AN IMMEDIATE JOB OPENING.
YOU ARE APPLYING TO TAKE AN
EXAMINATION WHICH WILL BE
USED TO CREATE AN ELIGIBLE
LIST FOR THIS JOB CLASSIFICATION. THAT LIST WILL BE USED
FOR FUTURE HIRES IN THIS JOB
CLASSIFICATION.
SALARY: The prevailing salary for
this position as established by Ordinance of the Council of the City of
Cleveland is $13.47 - $20.16 per Hour.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION –
This portion of the exam is worth
100% of your grade.
TYPING EXAMINATION – This portion of the exam is Pass/Fail. You
must type at least 45 words per
minute (gross words per minute
minus errors) in order to pass.

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
Any applicant that willfully provides
any false document, statement, or certification in regard to any test will be
terminated from all processing,
removed from any eligible list, and
may face possible criminal prosecution.
VETERANS’ PREFERENCE
Veterans’ preference will be awarded,
when applicable, to eligible veterans
in accordance with Civil Service
Rules 4.40E, 4.40F and 4.40G. Proof of
active service or a DD Form 214, must
be presented to the Commission at the
time of filing application for the
examination in which credit is sought
in order to qualify for veterans’ credit. If the applicant has received an
honorable discharge or a general discharge under honorable conditions
that applicant shall receive an additional five (5) points added to their
raw score on the examination.
THE
COMMISSION
WILL
NOT ENTERTAIN APPEALS FOR
VETERANS’
PREFERENCE
OR
RESIDENCY CREDIT AFTER THE
APPLICANT HAS FILED HIS/HER
APPLICATION. THE DECISION OF
THE COMMISSION IS FINAL.

NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, resumes and any
other required documents must be
uploaded and included with your
Application when it is submitted.
Applications without the required
documents will be rejected.

ANYONE
WHO
WISHES
TO
REQUEST AN ACCOMMODATION
MUST DO SO AT THE TIME OF FILING. THE COMMISSION WILL CONTACT THE INDIVIDUAL CONCERNING
SUCH
ACCOMMODATION
PRIOR TO THE EXAMINATION.
THE COMMISSION MAY REFUSE TO
PROVIDE SUCH ACCOMMODATION
IF IT IS NOT REASONABLE OR
WOULD CONSTITUTE AN UNDUE
HARDSHIP. CURRENT (WITHIN
ONE YEAR) DOCUMENTATION SUPPORTING THE NEED FOR THE
REQUESTED ACCOMMODATION IS
REQUIRED. SUCH DOCUMENTATION SHOULD BE SUBMITTED AT
THE TIME OF FILING.

Duties:

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Candidates will be notified of the
time, date, and place of the exams via
email.
NOTE: CANDIDATES MUST PASS
BOTH PARTS OF THIS EXAM IN
ORDER TO BE PLACED ON THE
ELIGIBLE LIST.

THE ELECTRONIC APPLICATION
PERIOD IS FROM 12:01 A.M. ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2019 UNTIL
11:59 PM. ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2019. NOTE: APPLICATIONS
WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED AFTER
11:59 PM ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2019.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
IMPORTANT NOTE: At the time of
submitting an application, copies of
the following items are required to be
uploaded as attachments to that
application:
1. Proof of Education (as provided
herein)
2. A valid Commercial Driver’s
License – Class B (as provided herein); and
3. DD-214 or other materials to prove
veteran’s status (as described herein)
only required if the applicant is seeking veteran’s preference points
NOTE: YOU ARE NOT APPLYING
FOR AN IMMEDIATE JOB OPENING.
YOU ARE APPLYING TO TAKE AN
EXAMINATION WHICH WILL BE
USED TO CREATE AN ELIGIBLE
LIST FOR THIS JOB CLASSIFICATION. THAT LIST WILL BE USED
FOR FUTURE HIRES IN THIS JOB
CLASSIFICATION.
NOTE: All correspondence, notifications, and certifications will be made
with applicants via email. Any
updates of email or your online profile must be made at: CS@city.cleveland.oh.us.
SALARY: The prevailing salary for
this position as established by Ordinance of the Council of the City of
Cleveland is $22.06 - $23.53 per Hour.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION:
Applicants will be notified of the
time, date, and place of the examination via email.
NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, resumes and any
other required documents must be
uploaded and included with your
Application when it is submitted.
Applications without the required
documents will be rejected.
Duties:

Under direct supervision, is responsible for conversion of data to machine
readable form on card, tape, or direct
access. Assists in the training of Data
Conversion Operators and assumes
the duties of the supervisor in his/her
absence. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
Minimum Qualifications
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Three years of full time
paid experience as a computer operator is required. A valid State of Ohio

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 011
SEWER
MAINTENANCE
LEADER (OPEN)

UNIT

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio, of an open competitive
examination for the above classification.
FILING OF APPLICATION:
Application must be made electronically through the City of Cleveland’s
web site:
www.governmentjobs.com/careers/c
leveland
No other form or method of application will be accepted. Absolutely no
paper applications will be accepted.

109

Under supervision, is responsible for
the cleaning, repairing, and maintenance of sewers. Performs related
duties as required. TYPICAL TASKS:
Supervises subordinates in general
sewer maintenance work. Supervises
digging, sheathing, and timbering of
trenches. Supervises repairing, cleaning, and flushing of sewers, catch
basins, overflows, and house connections. Supervises the replacing of
catch basin covers, grates, hoods, and
stones. Supervises the loading and
unloading of supplies. Tests sewers
for breaks. Operates and services
trucks. Maintains a record of materials used and of time worked. Prepares
reports and work schedules. Follows
all operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates

The City Record

20
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
Minimum Qualifications:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of full time paid
experience in Sewer Maintenance as a
Sewer Service Worker with the City
of Cleveland or four years of full time
paid experience in a sewer maintenance and/or sewer construction
environment is required. A valid State
of Ohio Commercial Driver’s License
Class B is required, Class A is preferred. The A.P.W.A. Basic Supervision course must be completed within
six months of the date of hire. Must be
able to lift and carry up to 100 pounds.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
Any applicant that willfully provides
any false document, statement, or certification in regard to any test will be
terminated from all processing,
removed from any eligible list, and
may face possible criminal prosecution.
VETERANS’ PREFERENCE
Veterans’ preference will be awarded,
when applicable, to eligible veterans
in accordance with Civil Service
Rules 4.40E, 4.40F and 4.40G. Proof of
active service or a DD Form 214, must
be presented to the Commission at the
time of filing application for the
examination in which credit is sought
in order to qualify for veterans’ credit. If the applicant has received an
honorable discharge or a general discharge under honorable conditions
that applicant shall receive an additional five (5) points added to their
raw score on the examination.
THE
COMMISSION
WILL
NOT ENTERTAIN APPEALS FOR
VETERANS’
PREFERENCE
OR
RESIDENCY CREDIT AFTER THE
APPLICANT HAS FILED HIS/HER
APPLICATION. THE DECISION OF
THE COMMISSION IS FINAL.
ANYONE
WHO
WISHES
TO
REQUEST AN ACCOMMODATION
MUST DO SO AT THE TIME OF FILING. THE COMMISSION WILL CONTACT THE INDIVIDUAL CONCERNING
SUCH
ACCOMMODATION
PRIOR TO THE EXAMINATION.
THE COMMISSION MAY REFUSE TO
PROVIDE SUCH ACCOMMODATION
IF IT IS NOT REASONABLE OR
WOULD CONSTITUTE AN UNDUE
HARDSHIP. CURRENT (WITHIN
ONE YEAR) DOCUMENTATION SUPPORTING THE NEED FOR THE
REQUESTED ACCOMMODATION IS
REQUIRED. SUCH DOCUMENTATION SHOULD BE SUBMITTED AT
THE TIME OF FILING.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
January 30, 2019

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019
9:30 A.M.
Waste Collection Ticket
Calendar No. 19-007: 3658 West 138th
Street (Ward 16)
Imperial Properties LLC., owner,
appeals under the authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances and disputes the decision of
the City of Cleveland Waste Collection Division in the issuance of Civil
Infraction
Ticket
Number
WC40061301 regarding failure to
comply with Section 551.111(B) in
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
(Filed January 9, 2019)
Calendar No. 19-009: 1467 East 110th
Street (Ward 9)
Famicos Foundation, owner, proposes to erect a two story frame,
1,554 square foot, single family residence with a detached garage on a
4,560 square foot lot in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) in a
Two-Family residential district no
interior side yard, shall be less than
five (5) feet in width for a corner
lot, nor less than three (3) feet in
width for an interior lot, nor shall
the aggregate width of side yards
on the same premises be less than
then (10) feet. However, the width
of any such interior side yard shall
in no case be less than one fourth
(1/4) the height of the main building on the premises. The required
side yard is 7' - 8"; a 6' - 0" side
yard is proposed.
2. Section 341.02(b) which states
that
City
planning
approval
is
required prior to the issuance of a
building permit. (Filed January 10,
2019)
Calendar No. 19-010: 1468 East 110th
Street (Ward 9)
Famicos Foundation, owner, proposes to erect a two story, frame,
single
family
residence
with
a
detached garage on a 3,900 square
foot lot in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the strict application
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 347.07(a) which states
that a driveway used to provide
accessibility to accessory off street
parking spaces shall be arranged to
minimize traffic congestion.
2. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the minimum lot area for a single family dwelling in a “B” area
district is 4,800 square feet and the
lot area is 3,900 square feet; this section also states that the minimum
lot width required is 40' and the
appellant is proposing 39'.
3.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
states that open front porches shall
not be less than 10 feet from property line; the appellant is proposing
8'.
4. Section 341.02(b) which states
that
City
planning
approval
is
required prior to the issuance of a
building permit. (Filed January 10,
2019)

110

January 30, 2019
Calendar No. 19-011: 1478 East 110th
Street (Ward 9)
Famicos Foundation, owner, proposes to erect a two story, frame,
single
family
residence
with
a
detached garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the required front yard setback
15 feet and the appellant is proposing 14.5 feet.
2.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
states that open porches shall not be
less than 10 feet from street line
and the appellant is proposing 8.5
feet.
3. Section 341.02(b) which states
that
City
planning
approval
is
required prior to the issuance of a
building permit. (Filed January 10,
2019)
Calendar No. 19-012: 2200 West 32nd
Street (Ward 3)
Jeanette Elaine, owner, proposes
to erect a 6 foot tall 30 lineal feet
of wooden fence in the interior side
yard of a property located in a B1
Two-Family
Residential
District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of Section
358.04(a) which states that no fence
shall be higher than the distance to
the house on adjacent lot; 6 feet are
required and 4 feet 6 inches are proposed. (Filed January 10, 2019)
Calendar No. 19-013: 2815-2825 East
130th Street (Ward 6)
Oak Bend Holdings, (aka Shaker
Square Towers), owner, proposes to
make alterations to a 110 unit apartment complex which will result in
the elimination of 30 accessory offstreet parking spaces in a D2 MultiFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of Section 349.02 of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances
which states that in all use districts,
existing off-street parking facilities
shall not voluntarily be reduced
below the requirements of the Zoning Code. One space per unit is
required per Section 349.04. With the
proposed elimination of 30 accessory off-street parking spaces the 110
unit apartment complex will have 41
parking spaces remaining. (Filed
January 14, 2019)
Calendar No. 19-014: 1609 Hazel
Drive (Ward 9)
Cleveland
Institute
of
Music,
owner, proposes to erect a 5 story
building consisting of classrooms,
offices and residences in a D5 MultiFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 337.08(d) which states
that a public or private school and
its accessory uses must be at least
15 feet from premises in a MultiFamily Residential District.
2. Section 355.04 which states that
in a ‘D’ Area District the total floor
area of a residential building cannot exceed the lot size area. The lot
size is 61.059 square feet and the
proposed building area is 102,785.
3. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the front yard equal to 15% of
the lot depth is required to a maximum of 30 feet. The proposed front

The City Record

January 30, 2019
yard setback at its closest point is
5 feet.
4.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that a rear yard equal to 15%
of the lot depth is required. In this
case 32 feet are required and 14 feet
6 inches.
5. Section 357.09(b)(2)(C) which
states that an interior side yard
equal to one-fourth the height of the
main building is required; in this
case 15 feet is required and a portion of the building is 8 feet 3 inches. A 3,018 square foot side yard
area at the north side of the building is required where approximately 1,400 square feet are proposed.
6. Section 341 which states that
City
Planning
and
Landmarks
approval is required. (Filed January
22, 2019)
Calendar No. 19-015: 7504 Herman
Avenue (Ward 15)
Geoffrey Vlach, owner, proposes
to erect a 2 story attached garage
with a second floor master bedroom
to an existing single family residence in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) of the Cleveland
Codified
Ordinances
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 6 feet and the appellant is
proposing 2 feet 6 inches. (Filed
January 23, 2019)
POSTPONED FROM
FEBRUARY 4, 2019
Calendar No. 19-008: 2512 Church
Avenue (Ward 3)
Schmaltz Church Street Holdings,
owner, proposes to establish use as
a restaurant in a D3 Local Retail
Business
District.
The
owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application
of
Section
349.04(f)
which states that 16 parking spaces
are required based on the number of
employees and the area dedicated to
patron use, but no parking is proposed. (Filed January 9, 2019 - No
Testimony)
First postponement made due to
an error in the case description
POSTPONED FROM
JANUARY 28, 2019

21

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
28, 2019 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board and;
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 18-290: 9219 Clifton
Avenue
9219 Clifton LLC., owner, proposes
to change use of existing two family residence to a three family residence in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 19-001: 1963 West 47th
Street
Open Holdings LLC., owner, proposes to construct an addition and a
detached garage to existing residence on a 3,696 lot in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 19-002: 5730 Flowerdale
Avenue
Henry Norena, owner, proposes to
erect a 22' x 45' (990 square feet)
garage addition to an existing single family residence located on a
5,700 square foot lot in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 19-003: 3069 West 25th
Street
3069 Properties LLC., owner, proposes to change use from store to
tire shop in a C2 Local Retail Business District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

appeals

The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 18-285: 1526 West 25th
Street
West 25 Street Lofts LLC., owner,
proposes to expand use to include
Entertainment in a D2 Local Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 18-286: 3005 Chester
Avenue
Chester Storage, LLC., owner, proposes to establish use as self-storage
facility and enclose parking lot with
a new 6 foot tall fence in a B2 General Retail Business District and a
C2 Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 18-288: 11601 Euclid
Avenue
Uptown Three LP., owner, proposes to construct a new 4 story retail
and 49 unit apartment building in a
C3 General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 18-289: 10480 Kinsman
Road
Unity Baptist Church, owner, proposes to consolidate a parcel of land
located in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District
to
expand
the
church parking lot.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

was

Calendar No. 19-004: 527 East 140th
Street
Krew Time LLC., owner, proposes
to establish use as party/event center with live entertainment in a C2
Local Retail Business District.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Tuesday, January 22, 2019 and the
decisions
were
adopted
and
approved on Monday, January 28,
2019:

The report of the Board of Building Standards and Appeals from the
meeting of January 23, 2019 will
appear in the City Record of February 6, 2019 Issue No. 5487

PUBLIC NOTICE

were
NONE

None.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 18-261: 2618 North Moreland (Ward 4)
N.
Moreland-Larchmere,
LLC.,
owner, appeals under the authority
of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the
City
of
Cleveland
and
Section
329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances from Notice of Violation
Number V18035384 issued on October
19, 2018 by the Cleveland Department of Building and Housing for
failure
to
comply
with
Section
327.02(c) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances which states that there
shall be no change, substitution or
extension in the use of any building
or premises until the required use
permit and Certificate of Occupancy
has been issued by the Division of
Building
and
Housing.
(Filed
November 16, 2018 - No Testimony)
Second postponement made due to
a scheduling conflict. First postponement made at the request of the
appellant.
Secretary

The following appeals were DISMISSED:

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

None.
The following cases were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 18-239: Number Three
Grace LLC
3547 East 49th Street. Postponed to
February 25, 2019.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 18-261: N. MorelandLarchmere, LLC
2618 North Moreland. Postponed to
February 11, 2019.
Calendar No. 18-267: B.R. Knez
2291 West 38th Street. Postponed
to March 18, 2019.
Calendar No. 18-283: Target Industries
1575 Merwin Avenue. Postponed to
February 25, 2019.

111

CITY of CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to

The City Record

22
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

ADDRESS, COMPANY CONTACT/
REPRESENTATIVE
FULL
NAME, CONTACT TELEPHONE
NUMBER,
FACSIMILE
TELEPHONE NUMBER AND EMAIL
ADDRESS. THE FED EX DELIVERY
CHARGES
FOR
THE
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
WILL BE BILLED TO THE BIDDER’S
COMPANY
FED
EX
ACCOUNT NUMBER PROVIDED.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2019 AT
10:30 A.M. CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT
FSS
BUILDING,
5301
WEST HANGAR ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
QUESTIONS
REGARDING
THE
PURCHASE
OF
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS
CAN
BE
DIRECTED TO ROYCE GRIFFIN
AT (216) 664-2628.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12
O’CLOCK
NOON
(EASTERN
TIME).

FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 2019
File No. 11-19 — North Airfield
Improvements Project Phase 3Alpha/Romeo at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, for the
Division of Airports, Department of
Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1276-16, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 28, 2016.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR MONEY ORDER (NO
COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH,
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE
PLANS. ALL PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
MUST
BE
PURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM THE
DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND
SUPPLIES. BIDDERS MUST BE
ON THE PLAN-HOLDERS LIST
TO SUBMIT A BID OR RECEIVE
ANY ADDENDA.) OUT-OF-AREA
BIDDERS MAY SEND THEIR
NON-REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS VIA FED EX DELIVERY
TO: CITY OF CLEVELAND, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE
ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
INCLUDE
IN
YOUR
REQUEST
YOUR
COMPANY’S
FED EX ACCOUNT NUMBER,
FULL COMPANY NAME AND

January 23, 2019 and January 30, 2019
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2019
File No. 12-19 — Various Heavy Duty
Truck Engines Parts and Labor, for
the Division of Motor Vechicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Works, as authorized by Section
131.64 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2019
AT 10:30 A.M. DIVISION OF
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44105.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12
O’CLOCK
NOON
(EASTERN
TIME).
File No. 13-19 — Purchase of Various
Air Compressors, for the Division
of Motor Vechicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Section 131.64 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THER E
WILL
BE
A
NONMANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING,
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2019 AT

January 30, 2019
10:00 A.M. DIVISION OF MOTOR
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
NOTE: BID MUST BE DELIVERED
AT THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER
OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 BEFORE 12
O’CLOCK
NOON
(EASTERN
TIME).
January 30, 2019 and February 6, 2019

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, January 28, 2019
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee:
Present:
Griffin,
Chair;
McCormack, Vice Chair; Conwell, B.
Jones, Santana, Zone. Authorized
Absence: Hairston.
2:00 p.m.
Joint-Development, Planning and
Sustainability Committee & Finance
Committee: Present in DP&S: Brancatelli, Chair; Hairston, B. Jones,
Keane,
McCormack.
Authorized
Absence:
Cleveland,
Vice
Chair;
Bishop. Present in Finance: Kelley,
Chair; Zone, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli, Conwell, Griffin, Keane,
McCormack.
Authorized
Absence:
Cleveland.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Zone, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli, Conwell, Griffin, Keane,
McCormack.
Authorized
Absence:
Cleveland.
Tuesday, January 29, 2019
9:30 a.m.
Development, Planning and Sustainability
Committee:
Present:
Brancatelli, Chair; Bishop, Hairston,
B. Jones, Keane, McCormack. Authorized
Absence:
Cleveland,
Vice
Chair.
Wednesday, January 30, 2019
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee: CANCELLED.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with Guy Gadomski, CPA to
provide professional budget analysis and auditing services necessary for Cleveland City
Council. (O 115-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

112

January 30, 2019

The City Record

Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with NetX Internet LLC to provide
wireless internet service to Cleveland City Council. (O 116-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with On Technology Partners for
the professional services necessary to advise and assist in the maintenance and
performance of computer technology projects and to provide specific computer technology
services for Cleveland City Council. (O 117-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with The Batchelder Company for
professional strategic government affairs consulting services for Cleveland City Council.
(O 114-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with The Project Group for
professional assistance in investigating utility related matters pertaining to the
Divisions of Cleveland Public Power, Water and Water Pollution Control for Cleveland
City Council. (O 118-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into a Joint Registration Agreement with
The Medical Center Company of Cleveland; and to accept payments under the agreement
for duties performed by the Division of Cleveland Public Power. (O 1467-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works and/or Capital Projects to enter into an agreement
with the Cleveland Indians Inc. to allow and accept improvements at Luke Easter Park
and League Park as a gift to the City; determining the method of making the public
improvement of designing and constructing the new improvements and authorizing
contracts with the Cleveland Indians and the Cleveland Indians Charities for that
purpose; to apply for and accept grants and gifts from various entities; and authorizing
the direct employment of necessary labor, for the Department of Public Works. (O 74-2019)

23
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Baseball Heritage Museum
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to lease certain space located in the Ticket House
Building at League Park to the Negro League Baseball Legends of Fame Inc. dba
Baseball Heritage Museum for the purpose of storing and displaying historical baseball
memorabilia relevant to League Park, for a period of up to three years with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Works. (O 146-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Capitol Avenue, 8723 (Ward 6) — PPN 126-05-037 — Dionne Percy (BOC Res. 27-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
East 130th Street, 3234 (Ward 4) — PPN 130-07-046 — Marnetta Stone (BOC Res. 28-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Russell Avenue, 1335 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-02-118 — Johnathan Duprey (BOC Res. 26-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105

Board of Control — Economic Development Department
Holton Avenue — PPNs 126-28-021/022 — purchase property to hold in Industrial Commercial
Land Bank per C.O. Sec. 183.021(b)(11) — Division of Purchases and Supplies
(BOC Res. 29-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105

Board of Control — Finance Department
Project Clean program temporary and seasonal personnel — per Ord. 1222-18 to Snider-Blake
Business, Inc. — Depts. of Law, Public Works (BOC Res. 24-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104

Board of Control — Land Acquisition
Holton Avenue — PPNs 126-28-021/022 — purchase property to hold in Industrial Commercial
Land Bank per C.O. Sec. 183.021(b)(11) — Division of Purchases and Supplies, Dept.
of Economic Development (BOC Res. 29-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105

Board of Control — Land Reconveyance
Land located at 7654 Broadway Avenue — PPN 133-20-036 — convey to 7710 Broadway Avenue
Propco LLC per Ord. 1176-18 — Division of Purchases and Supplies, Dept. of Law
(BOC Res. 25-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Capitol Avenue, 8723 (Ward 6) — PPN 126-05-037 — Dionne Percy (BOC Res. 27-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
East 130th Street, 3234 (Ward 4) — PPN 130-07-046 — Marnetta Stone (BOC Res. 28-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Russell Avenue, 1335 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-02-118 — Johnathan Duprey (BOC Res. 26-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 4)
East 130th Street, 3234 (Ward 4) — PPN 130-07-046 — Marnetta Stone (BOC Res. 28-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 6)
Capitol Avenue, 8723 (Ward 6) — PPN 126-05-037 — Dionne Percy (BOC Res. 27-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105

113

The City Record

24

January 30, 2019

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 7)
Russell Avenue, 1335 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-02-118 — Johnathan Duprey (BOC Res. 26-19). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105

Board of Control — Law Department
Land located at 7654 Broadway Avenue — PPN 133-20-036 — convey to 7710 Broadway Avenue
Propco LLC per Ord. 1176-18 — Division of Purchases and Supplies (BOC Res. 25-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Project Clean program temporary and seasonal personnel — per Ord. 1222-18 to Snider-Blake
Business, Inc. — Depts. of Finance, Public Works (BOC Res. 24-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Project Clean program temporary and seasonal personnel — per Ord. 1222-18 to Snider-Blake
Business, Inc. — Depts. of Finance, Law, Public Works (BOC Res. 24-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Project Clean program temporary and seasonal personnel — per Ord. 1222-18 to Snider-Blake
Business, Inc. — Depts. of Finance, Law (BOC Res. 24-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Holton Avenue — PPNs 126-28-021/022 — purchase property to hold in Industrial Commercial
Land Bank per C.O. Sec. 183.021(b)(11) — Dept. of Economic Development (BOC Res. 29-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Land located at 7654 Broadway Avenue — PPN 133-20-036 — convey to 7710 Broadway Avenue
Propco LLC per Ord. 1176-18 — Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 25-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Chester Avenue, 3005 (Ward 7) — Chester Storage, LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/28/19 (Cal. 18-286) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clifton Boulevard, 9219 (Ward 15) — 9219 Clifton LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/28/19
(Cal. 18-290) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th Street, 527 (Ward 8) — Krew Time LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/28/19
(Cal. 19-4). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 49th Street, 3547 (Ward 12) — Number Three Grace LLC, owner — appeal postponed to
2/25/19 on 1/28/19 (Cal. 18-239) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 11601 (Ward 9) — Uptown Three LP, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/28/19 (Cal. 18-288). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flowerdale Avenue, 5730 (Ward 13) — Henry Norena, owner — appeal heard on 1/28/19
(Cal. 19-2). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road, 10480 (Ward 4) — Unity Baptist Church, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/28/19 (Cal. 18-289) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Merwin Avenue, 1575 (Ward 3) — Target Industries Inc., owner — appeal postponed to
2/25/19 on 1/28/19 (Cal. 18-283) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Moreland, 2618 (Ward 4) — N. Moreland-Larchmere, LLC, owner — appeal postponed to
2/11/19 on 1/28/19 (Cal. 18-261) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1526 (Ward 3) — West 25 Street Lofts LLC, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 1/28/19 (Cal. 18-285) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 3069 (Ward 14) — 3069 Properties LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/28/19
(Cal. 19-3). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 47th Street, 1963 (Ward 3) — Open Holdings LLC, owner — appeal heard on
1/28/19 (Cal. 19-1). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wet 38th Street, 2291 (Ward 3) — B.R. Knez — appeal postponed to 3/18/19 on 1/28/19
(Cal. 18-267) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 110th Street, 1467 (Ward 9) — Famicos Foundation, owner — appeal to be heard
on 2/11/19 (Cal. 19-9) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 110th Street, 1468 (Ward 9) — Famicos Foundation, owner — appeal to be heard
on 2/11/19 (Cal. 19-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 110th Street, 1478 (Ward 9) — Famicos Foundation, owner — appeal to be heard
on 2/11/19 (Cal. 19-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 130th Street, 2815-2825 (Ward 6) — Oak Bend Holdings (a.k.a. Shaker Square
Towers), owner — appeal to be heard on 2/11/19 (Cal. 19-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hazel Drive, 1609 (Ward 9) — Cleveland Institute of Music, owner — appeal to be heard
on 2/11/19 (Cal. 19-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Herman Avenue, 7504 (Ward 15) — Geoffrey Vlach, owner — appeal to be heard on 2/11/19
(Cal. 19-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 138th Street, 3658 (Ward 16) — Imperial Properties LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 2/11/19 (Cal. 19-7) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 32nd Street, 2200 (Ward 3) — Jeanette Elaine, owner — appeal to be heard on 2/11/19
(Cal. 19-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

114

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110

January 30, 2019

The City Record

25

Burke Lakefront Airport
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to exercise the third option to renew Contract No.
CT 3001 LS 2014-20 with Weather Forecast, Inc. of Ohio to provide for the use and
occupancy of space located in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront
Airport for weather forecasting activities. (O 80-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Capital Projects
Authorizing the Director of Public Works and/or Capital Projects to enter into an agreement
with the Cleveland Indians Inc. to allow and accept improvements at Luke Easter Park
and League Park as a gift to the City; determining the method of making the public
improvement of designing and constructing the new improvements and authorizing
contracts with the Cleveland Indians and the Cleveland Indians Charities for that
purpose; to apply for and accept grants and gifts from various entities; and authorizing
the direct employment of necessary labor, for the Department of Public Works. (O 74-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
Determining the method of making the public improvement of repairing, constructing, or
installing, roadways, bus pads, sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, brick streets, ADA
compliant curb ramps, minor bridge repairs, and appurtenances, and asphalt resurfacing
and asphalt crack sealing; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into one
or more public improvement requirement contracts for the making of the improvement;
authorizing the director to apply for and accept any gifts or grants; and authorizing any
agreements, for a period not to exceed two years. (O 140-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94

Census
Supporting the local Complete Court Committee for the 2020 Census that will be established by
Council and the Jackson administration. (R 64-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

City Council
Re-affirming this Council’s and the City’s commitment to addressing childhood lead poisoning
and supporting the formation of the Lead Safe Cleveland Coalition to confront lead
poisoning in the City and to effectively advance lead safe efforts through implementation
of a Lead Safe Solution. (R 149-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99
Supporting the local Complete Court Committee for the 2020 Census that will be established by
Council and the Jackson administration. (R 64-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

City of Cleveland Bids
Air Compressors — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance —
per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — bid due February 27, 2019 (advertised 1/30/2019 and 2/6/2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
Heavy Duty Truck Engines Parts and Labor — Department of Public Works — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — bid due February 27, 2019
(advertised 1/30/2019 and 2/6/2019). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
North Airfield Improvements Project Phase 3 — Alpha/Romeo at CHIA — Department of Port
Control — Division of Airports — per Ord. 1276-16 — bid due March 8, 2019 (advertised
1/23/2019 and 1/30/2019). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112

City Planning Commission
Authorizing the Director of City Planning to consent to assignment of Contract No. 55936, as
amended, from Omni Media Cleveland, Inc. to IKE Smart City, LLC; and to enter into an
amendment to the Agreement. (O 121-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Civil Service Commission
Oath of Office for Michael Spreng, Secretary, Civil Service Commission, City of Cleveland.
(F 130-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93

Clerk of Council
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with Guy Gadomski, CPA to
provide professional budget analysis and auditing services necessary for Cleveland City
Council. (O 115-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with NetX Internet LLC to provide
wireless internet service to Cleveland City Council. (O 116-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with On Technology Partners for
the professional services necessary to advise and assist in the maintenance and
performance of computer technology projects and to provide specific computer technology
services for Cleveland City Council. (O 117-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with The Batchelder Company for
professional strategic government affairs consulting services for Cleveland City Council.
(O 114-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with The Project Group for
professional assistance in investigating utility related matters pertaining to the
Divisions of Cleveland Public Power, Water and Water Pollution Control for Cleveland
City Council. (O 118-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

115

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

The City Record

26

January 30, 2019

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport ( CHIA )
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with AvAirPros
Services, Inc. for the lease of certain space in the terminal building at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport for the purpose of operating and maintaining the inline baggage
handling system, for the Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with three
one-year options to renew, the first of which shall require additional legislative authority.
(O 84-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with BP Products
North America, Inc. for the use and occupancy of City owned property commonly known
as the North Fuel Farm at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for the purpose of
operating an aviation fuel storage and handling facility, for a period of two years, with
three one-year options to renew, the first of which shall require additional legislative
authority. (O 83-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease By Way of Concession with
Alclear, LLC, dba as CLEAR for the installation, maintenance, and operation of up to
fifteen kiosks located at the security checkpoints and for administrative support space
at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for a period of five years, with one five-year
option to renew, which shall require additional legislative authority. (O 82-2019) . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to exercise the third option to renew Contract No.
CT 3001 LS 2014-28 with United Airlines, Inc. to provide for the use and occupancy of office
and warehouse space located in the South Cargo Facility at 6090 Cargo Road at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport for the purposes of operating an air cargo facility. (O 81-2019)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Cleveland Indians
Authorizing the Director of Public Works and/or Capital Projects to enter into an agreement
with the Cleveland Indians Inc. to allow and accept improvements at Luke Easter Park
and League Park as a gift to the City; determining the method of making the public
improvement of designing and constructing the new improvements and authorizing
contracts with the Cleveland Indians and the Cleveland Indians Charities for that
purpose; to apply for and accept grants and gifts from various entities; and authorizing
the direct employment of necessary labor, for the Department of Public Works. (O 74-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Cleveland Public Power ( CPP )
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with The Project Group for
professional assistance in investigating utility related matters pertaining to the
Divisions of Cleveland Public Power, Water and Water Pollution Control for Cleveland
City Council. (O 118-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into a Joint Registration Agreement with
The Medical Center Company of Cleveland; and to accept payments under the agreement
for duties performed by the Division of Cleveland Public Power. (O 1467-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Collective Bargaining Agreements ( CBA )
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with International Association of Fire
Fighters, Local 93 ARFF; and to amend Section 29 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed
March 30, 2015, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 67-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Communications
From Khrys Shefton, Director of Real Estate Development, Famicos Foundation. Notice of
award of funding by Ohio Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs
for the development known as Circle North Lease Purchase Homes, at various sites in
Cleveland, Ohio. (F 132-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
Oath of Office for Michael Spreng, Secretary, Civil Service Commission, City of Cleveland.
(F 130-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
Oath of Office for Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Communications, Office of the Mayor, City of
Cleveland. (F 131-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93

Community Development
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the PY2019 under the
Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2019 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program; and authorizing contracts
and other expenditures. (O 142-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94

Community Development Block Grant Program ( CDBG )
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the PY2019 under the
Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2019 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program; and authorizing contracts
and other expenditures. (O 142-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94

116

The City Record

January 30, 2019

27

Concession Agreements
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into one or more concession agreements for
the operation of a first class food and beverage service in the Public Auditorium and
Conference Center, for a period not to exceed three years, with two one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Works. (O 144-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98

Condolences
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence

Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution

for
for
for
for
for
for
for

Annie M. Reid. (R 159-2019) . . . . . . . . .
Lessie (Barnes) Brown. (R 155-2019) .
Linda D. Stone. (R 156-2019) . . . . . . . . .
Lynda Ann Moore Lacey. (R 154-2019)
Ruth Johnson Boseman. (R 158-2019)
Scot A. Palicka. (R 160-2019) . . . . . . . .
William David Davis. (R 157-2019) . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.94
.93
.93
.93
.94
.94
.94

Charlene Crowley. (R 164-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Christopher Ronayne. (R 167-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
DeNoris Brown. (R 161-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
James J. McMonagle. (R 166-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reverend Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr. (R 162-2019)
Sean A. Hardy. (R 165-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Veronica “Vera” Casey. (R 163-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.94
.94
.94
.94
.94
.94
.94

Congratulations
Congratulations
Congratulations
Congratulations
Congratulations
Congratulations
Congratulations
Congratulations

Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution

for
for
for
for
for
for
for

Contracts
Authorizing the Director of City Planning to consent to assignment of Contract No. 55936, as
amended, from Omni Media Cleveland, Inc. to IKE Smart City, LLC; and to enter into an
amendment to the Agreement. (O 121-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to exercise the third option to renew Contract No.
CT 3001 LS 2014-20 with Weather Forecast, Inc. of Ohio to provide for the use and
occupancy of space located in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront
Airport for weather forecasting activities. (O 80-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into an amendment to Contract No. CT 6007
PS 2017-251 with Cuyahoga County for the County Sheriff’s Department to house and
provide services for City prisoners in order to add an additional limited category to the
definition of City prisoners for which the City will pay the County’s prisoner per diem
amount. (O 68-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more contracts with the
Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Office and/or the Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner’s Office
to reimburse Cuyahoga County for City’s share of costs for the Automated Fingerprint
Identification System (“AFIS”), for a period up to two years. (O 69-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to exercise the option to renew Contract No. CT 7004
PS 2018-102 with The Davey Tree Expert Company to perform external landscape and
maintenance of the Highland Park Golf Course. (O 145-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98

Cuyahoga County Medical Examiners Office
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more contracts with the
Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Office and/or the Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner’s Office
to reimburse Cuyahoga County for City’s share of costs for the Automated Fingerprint
Identification System (“AFIS”), for a period up to two years. (O 69-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Cuyahoga County Sheriffs Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into an amendment to Contract No. CT 6007
PS 2017-251 with Cuyahoga County for the County Sheriff’s Department to house and
provide services for City prisoners in order to add an additional limited category to the
definition of City prisoners for which the City will pay the County’s prisoner per diem
amount. (O 68-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more contracts with the
Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Office and/or the Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner’s Office
to reimburse Cuyahoga County for City’s share of costs for the Automated Fingerprint
Identification System (“AFIS”), for a period up to two years. (O 69-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Engineering and Construction Division
Determining the method of making the public improvement of repairing, constructing, or
installing, roadways, bus pads, sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, brick streets, ADA
compliant curb ramps, minor bridge repairs, and appurtenances, and asphalt resurfacing
and asphalt crack sealing; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into one
or more public improvement requirement contracts for the making of the improvement;
authorizing the director to apply for and accept any gifts or grants; and authorizing any
agreements, for a period not to exceed two years. (O 140-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94

117

The City Record

28

January 30, 2019

Famicos Foundation
From Khrys Shefton, Director of Real Estate Development, Famicos Foundation. Notice of
award of funding by Ohio Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs
for the development known as Circle North Lease Purchase Homes, at various sites in
Cleveland, Ohio. (F 132-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93

Finance Department
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with International Association of Fire
Fighters, Local 93 ARFF; and to amend Section 29 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 67-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
To amend Section 53 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to compensation
for various classifications. (O 1473-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
To amend Sections 51 and 52 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended,
relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 66-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Gateway Garage
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide services necessary to manage the Gateway East Garage, for a period up to three
years. (O 147-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99

Gifts
Authorizing the Director of Public Works and/or Capital Projects to enter into an agreement
with the Cleveland Indians Inc. to allow and accept improvements at Luke Easter Park
and League Park as a gift to the City; determining the method of making the public
improvement of designing and constructing the new improvements and authorizing
contracts with the Cleveland Indians and the Cleveland Indians Charities for that
purpose; to apply for and accept grants and gifts from various entities; and authorizing
the direct employment of necessary labor, for the Department of Public Works. (O 74-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Grants
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the PY2019 under the
Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2019 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program; and authorizing contracts
and other expenditures. (O 142-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94

Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the Hermes Chili Bowl Classic 5K on
February 23, 2019, managed by Hermes Sports. (O 148-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100

Highland Park Golf Course
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to exercise the option to renew Contract No. CT 7004
PS 2018-102 with The Davey Tree Expert Company to perform external landscape and
maintenance of the Highland Park Golf Course. (O 145-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98

Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the PY2019 under the
Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2019 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and
the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program; and authorizing contracts
and other expenditures. (O 142-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94

Human Resources Department
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with International Association of Fire
Fighters, Local 93 ARFF; and to amend Section 29 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 67-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
To amend Section 53 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to compensation
for various classifications. (O 1473-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
To amend Sections 51 and 52 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended,
relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 66-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

118

January 30, 2019

The City Record

29

IX Center
To amend the title and Sections 1, 2, and 4 of Ordinance No. 700-16, passed August 10, 2016, as
amended; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new Sections 3a and 3b, relating to
the public improvement of rehabilitating the storm and sanitary sewer systems in and
around the IX Center and discharge centers and constructing infrastructure improvements
needed for the rehabilitation and to authorize a design build contract to make the
improvement and real estate and easement acquisition. (O 143-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97

Kiosks
Authorizing the Director of City Planning to consent to assignment of Contract No. 55936, as
amended, from Omni Media Cleveland, Inc. to IKE Smart City, LLC; and to enter into an
amendment to the Agreement. (O 121-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Lead Safe Cleveland Coalition
Re-affirming this Council’s and the City’s commitment to addressing childhood lead poisoning
and supporting the formation of the Lead Safe Cleveland Coalition to confront lead
poisoning in the City and to effectively advance lead safe efforts through implementation
of a Lead Safe Solution. (R 149-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99

League Park Center
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to lease certain space located in the Ticket House
Building at League Park to the Negro League Baseball Legends of Fame Inc. dba
Baseball Heritage Museum for the purpose of storing and displaying historical baseball
memorabilia relevant to League Park, for a period of up to three years with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Works. (O 146-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98

Lease Agreement
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with AvAirPros
Services, Inc. for the lease of certain space in the terminal building at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport for the purpose of operating and maintaining the inline baggage
handling system, for the Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with three
one-year options to renew, the first of which shall require additional legislative authority.
(O 84-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with BP Products
North America, Inc. for the use and occupancy of City owned property commonly known
as the North Fuel Farm at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for the purpose of
operating an aviation fuel storage and handling facility, for a period of two years, with
three one-year options to renew, the first of which shall require additional legislative
authority. (O 83-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Lease By Way of Concession
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease By Way of Concession with
Alclear, LLC, dba as CLEAR for the installation, maintenance, and operation of up to
fifteen kiosks located at the security checkpoints and for administrative support space
at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for a period of five years, with one five-year
option to renew, which shall require additional legislative authority. (O 82-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Leases
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to lease certain space located in the Ticket House
Building at League Park to the Negro League Baseball Legends of Fame Inc. dba
Baseball Heritage Museum for the purpose of storing and displaying historical baseball
memorabilia relevant to League Park, for a period of up to three years with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Works. (O 146-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98

Liquor Permits
#0121104. Transfer of Ownership Application, C2 C2X. Ali Elder Enterprises, Inc., 15315
Bartlett Ave. (Ward 1). (F 133-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#1879355. Liquor Agency Contract Application. DC Liquors, Inc., 1303 West 6th St. (Ward 3).
(F 134-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#1879355. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2 D6 D8. DC Liquors, Inc., 1303 West 6th St.
(Ward 3). (F 135-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#4301415. New License Application, D5. Johnny’s Top Shelf Wine and Spirits LLC, 13114
Larchmere Ave. (Ward 4). (F 136-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#5598665. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A. Maryevan, Inc., 4920-22 Pearl Rd.
(Ward 13). (F 137-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#5669105. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5J D6. Maynard Concessions Group LLC, 5300
Riverside Dr. (Ward 17). (F 138-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

119

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93

The City Record

30

#6228007. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1. Ejaz A. Mughal, 14910 Lorain Ave.
(Ward 17). (F 139-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 9302 Miles Avenue. (R 151-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to a New D1 Liquor Permit at 9200 Wade Park Avenue, Unit A 30/40 only. (R 153-2019)
Objecting to a New D5A Liquor Permit at 6955 Euclid Avenue. (R 150-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 1846 Euclid Avenue.
(R 152-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

January 30, 2019
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. .93
.100
.101
.100

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .101

Mayor’s Office
Oath of Office for Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Communications, Office of the Mayor, City of
Cleveland. (F 131-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
Re-affirming this Council’s and the City’s commitment to addressing childhood lead poisoning
and supporting the formation of the Lead Safe Cleveland Coalition to confront lead
poisoning in the City and to effectively advance lead safe efforts through implementation
of a Lead Safe Solution. (R 149-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99
Supporting the local Complete Court Committee for the 2020 Census that will be established by
Council and the Jackson administration. (R 64-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

Oath of Office
Oath of Office for Michael Spreng, Secretary, Civil Service Commission, City of Cleveland.
(F 130-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
Oath of Office for Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Communications, Office of the Mayor, City of
Cleveland. (F 131-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93

Office of Professional Standards
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more contracts with Hillard
Heintze for professional services necessary to conduct Phase 3 of the review of civilian
complaints filed during 2015, 2016, and 2017 in the Office of Professional Standards
backlog review. (O 70-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Ohio Housing Finance Agency ( OHFA )
From Khrys Shefton, Director of Real Estate Development, Famicos Foundation. Notice of
award of funding by Ohio Housing Finance Agency for multifamily funding programs
for the development known as Circle North Lease Purchase Homes, at various sites in
Cleveland, Ohio. (F 132-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93

Parking Facilities Division
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into one or more contracts with Link2Park,
Inc. dba Linkology for professional services necessary to provide software, hardware,
training, technical support, and maintenance, for the Parking Access and Revenue
Control System for Willard Parking Garage, Gateway Parking Garage and the West Side
Market parking lots, for the Division of Parking Facilities, Department of Public Works,
for a period of three years, with one two year option to renew, exercisable by the Director
of Public Works. (O 1474-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Permits
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the Hermes Chili Bowl Classic 5K on
February 23, 2019, managed by Hermes Sports. (O 148-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100

Port Control Department
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with AvAirPros
Services, Inc. for the lease of certain space in the terminal building at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport for the purpose of operating and maintaining the inline baggage
handling system, for the Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with three
one-year options to renew, the first of which shall require additional legislative authority.
(O 84-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease Agreement with BP Products
North America, Inc. for the use and occupancy of City owned property commonly known
as the North Fuel Farm at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for the purpose of
operating an aviation fuel storage and handling facility, for a period of two years, with
three one-year options to renew, the first of which shall require additional legislative
authority. (O 83-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Lease By Way of Concession with
Alclear, LLC, dba as CLEAR for the installation, maintenance, and operation of up to
fifteen kiosks located at the security checkpoints and for administrative support space
at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for a period of five years, with one five-year
option to renew, which shall require additional legislative authority. (O 82-2019) . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to exercise the third option to renew Contract No.
CT 3001 LS 2014-20 with Weather Forecast, Inc. of Ohio to provide for the use and
occupancy of space located in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront
Airport for weather forecasting activities. (O 80-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

120

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

January 30, 2019

The City Record

31

To amend the title and Sections 1, 2, and 4 of Ordinance No. 700-16, passed August 10, 2016, as
amended; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new Sections 3a and 3b, relating to
the public improvement of rehabilitating the storm and sanitary sewer systems in and
around the IX Center and discharge centers and constructing infrastructure improvements
needed for the rehabilitation and to authorize a design build contract to make the
improvement and real estate and easement acquisition. (O 143-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97

Professional Services Contracts
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with Guy Gadomski, CPA to
provide professional budget analysis and auditing services necessary for Cleveland City
Council. (O 115-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with NetX Internet LLC to provide
wireless internet service to Cleveland City Council. (O 116-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with On Technology Partners for
the professional services necessary to advise and assist in the maintenance and
performance of computer technology projects and to provide specific computer technology
services for Cleveland City Council. (O 117-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with The Batchelder Company for
professional strategic government affairs consulting services for Cleveland City Council.
(O 114-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with The Project Group for
professional assistance in investigating utility related matters pertaining to the Divisions
of Cleveland Public Power, Water and Water Pollution Control for Cleveland City Council.
(O 118-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more contracts with Hillard
Heintze for professional services necessary to conduct Phase 3 of the review of civilian
complaints filed during 2015, 2016, and 2017 in the Office of Professional Standards
backlog review. (O 70-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more contracts with Great
Lakes Observing System for professional services necessary to lease, deploy, maintain,
and retrieve two buoys and sondes, and for the regular calibration, monitoring, collecting,
and measuring of Lake Erie water quality, for the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two years. (O 1400-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide services necessary to manage the Gateway East Garage, for a period up to three
years. (O 147-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into one or more contracts with Link2Park,
Inc. dba Linkology for professional services necessary to provide software, hardware,
training, technical support, and maintenance, for the Parking Access and Revenue
Control System for Willard Parking Garage, Gateway Parking Garage and the West Side
Market parking lots, for the Division of Parking Facilities, Department of Public Works,
for a period of three years, with one two year option to renew, exercisable by the Director
of Public Works. (O 1474-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Public Improvement Contracts
Authorizing the Director of Public Works and/or Capital Projects to enter into an agreement
with the Cleveland Indians Inc. to allow and accept improvements at Luke Easter Park
and League Park as a gift to the City; determining the method of making the public
improvement of designing and constructing the new improvements and authorizing
contracts with the Cleveland Indians and the Cleveland Indians Charities for that purpose;
to apply for and accept grants and gifts from various entities; and authorizing the direct
employment of necessary labor, for the Department of Public Works. (O 74-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
Determining the method of making the public improvement of repairing, constructing, or
installing, roadways, bus pads, sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, brick streets, ADA
compliant curb ramps, minor bridge repairs, and appurtenances, and asphalt resurfacing
and asphalt crack sealing; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into one
or more public improvement requirement contracts for the making of the improvement;
authorizing the director to apply for and accept any gifts or grants; and authorizing any
agreements, for a period not to exceed two years. (O 140-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
To amend the title and Sections 1, 2, and 4 of Ordinance No. 700-16, passed August 10, 2016, as
amended; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new Sections 3a and 3b, relating to
the public improvement of rehabilitating the storm and sanitary sewer systems in and
around the IX Center and discharge centers and constructing infrastructure improvements
needed for the rehabilitation and to authorize a design build contract to make the
improvement and real estate and easement acquisition. (O 143-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97

Public Works
Authorizing the Director of Public Works and/or Capital Projects to enter into an agreement
with the Cleveland Indians Inc. to allow and accept improvements at Luke Easter Park
and League Park as a gift to the City; determining the method of making the public
improvement of designing and constructing the new improvements and authorizing
contracts with the Cleveland Indians and the Cleveland Indians Charities for that purpose;
to apply for and accept grants and gifts from various entities; and authorizing the direct
employment of necessary labor, for the Department of Public Works. (O 74-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

121

The City Record

32

Authorizing the Director of Public Works to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide services necessary to manage the Gateway East Garage, for a period up to three
years. (O 147-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into one or more concession agreements for
the operation of a first class food and beverage service in the Public Auditorium and
Conference Center, for a period not to exceed three years, with two one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Works. (O 144-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into one or more contracts with Link2Park,
Inc. dba Linkology for professional services necessary to provide software, hardware,
training, technical support, and maintenance, for the Parking Access and Revenue
Control System for Willard Parking Garage, Gateway Parking Garage and the West Side
Market parking lots, for the Division of Parking Facilities, Department of Public Works,
for a period of three years, with one two year option to renew, exercisable by the Director
of Public Works. (O 1474-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to exercise the option to renew Contract No. CT 7004
PS 2018-102 with The Davey Tree Expert Company to perform external landscape and
maintenance of the Highland Park Golf Course. (O 145-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to lease certain space located in the Ticket House
Building at League Park to the Negro League Baseball Legends of Fame Inc. dba
Baseball Heritage Museum for the purpose of storing and displaying historical baseball
memorabilia relevant to League Park, for a period of up to three years with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Works. (O 146-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

January 30, 2019

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98

Races
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the Hermes Chili Bowl Classic 5K on
February 23, 2019, managed by Hermes Sports. (O 148-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100

Recognition
Recognition Resolution for Vietnamese Community of Greater Cleveland “Year of the Pig”.
(R 168-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94

Resolution of Support
Re-affirming this Council’s and the City’s commitment to addressing childhood lead poisoning
and supporting the formation of the Lead Safe Cleveland Coalition to confront lead
poisoning in the City and to effectively advance lead safe efforts through implementation
of a Lead Safe Solution. (R 149-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99
Supporting Play it Forward Cleveland!, an instrument donation drive for Cleveland’s children.
(R 120-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104
Supporting the local Complete Court Committee for the 2020 Census that will be established by
Council and the Jackson administration. (R 64-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

Safety Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into an amendment to Contract No. CT 6007
PS 2017-251 with Cuyahoga County for the County Sheriff’s Department to house and
provide services for City prisoners in order to add an additional limited category to the
definition of City prisoners for which the City will pay the County’s prisoner per diem
amount. (O 68-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more contracts with the
Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Office and/or the Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner’s
Office to reimburse Cuyahoga County for City’s share of costs for the Automated
Fingerprint Identification System (“AFIS”), for a period up to two years. (O 69-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Salaries
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with International Association of Fire
Fighters, Local 93 ARFF; and to amend Section 29 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March
30, 2015, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 67-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
To amend Section 53 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to compensation
for various classifications. (O 1473-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
To amend Sections 51 and 52 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended,
relating to compensation for various classifications. (O 66-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Sewers
To amend the title and Sections 1, 2, and 4 of Ordinance No. 700-16, passed August 10, 2016, as
amended; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new Sections 3a and 3b, relating to
the public improvement of rehabilitating the storm and sanitary sewer systems in and
around the IX Center and discharge centers and constructing infrastructure
improvements needed for the rehabilitation and to authorize a design build contract to
make the improvement and real estate and easement acquisition. (O 143-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97

122

January 30, 2019

The City Record

33

United Airlines
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to exercise the third option to renew Contract No.
CT 3001 LS 2014-28 with United Airlines, Inc. to provide for the use and occupancy of office
and warehouse space located in the South Cargo Facility at 6090 Cargo Road at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport for the purposes of operating an air cargo facility. (O 81-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Utilities Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into a Joint Registration Agreement with
The Medical Center Company of Cleveland; and to accept payments under the agreement
for duties performed by the Division of Cleveland Public Power. (O 1467-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more contracts with Great
Lakes Observing System for professional services necessary to lease, deploy, maintain,
and retrieve two buoys and sondes, and for the regular calibration, monitoring, collecting,
and measuring of Lake Erie water quality, for the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two years. (O 1400-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Ward 01
#0121104. Transfer of Ownership Application, C2 C2X. Ali Elder Enterprises, Inc., 15315
Bartlett Ave. (Ward 1). (F 133-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Condolence Resolution for Annie M. Reid. (R 159-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for DeNoris Brown. (R 161-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for Reverend Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr. (R 162-2019) . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.93
.94
.94
.94

Ward 02
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 9302 Miles Avenue. (R 151-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100

Ward 03
#1879355. Liquor Agency Contract Application. DC Liquors, Inc., 1303 West 6th St. (Ward 3).
(F 134-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
#1879355. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2 D6 D8. DC Liquors, Inc., 1303 West 6th St.
(Ward 3). (F 135-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the Hermes Chili Bowl Classic 5K on
February 23, 2019, managed by Hermes Sports. (O 148-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100

Ward 04
#4301415. New License Application, D5. Johnny’s Top Shelf Wine and Spirits LLC, 13114
Larchmere Ave. (Ward 4). (F 136-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93

Ward 05
Condolence Resolution for Lynda Ann Moore Lacey. (R 154-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the Hermes Chili Bowl Classic 5K on
February 23, 2019, managed by Hermes Sports. (O 148-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100
Objecting to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 1846 Euclid Avenue.
(R 152-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .101

Ward 06
Condolence Resolution for Lessie (Barnes) Brown. (R 155-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
Condolence Resolution for Linda D. Stone. (R 156-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93

Ward 07
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the Hermes Chili Bowl Classic 5K on
February 23, 2019, managed by Hermes Sports. (O 148-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100
Objecting to a New D1 Liquor Permit at 9200 Wade Park Avenue, Unit A 30/40 only. (R 153-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .101
Objecting to a New D5A Liquor Permit at 6955 Euclid Avenue. (R 150-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100

Ward 09
Supporting Play it Forward Cleveland!, an instrument donation drive for Cleveland’s children.
(R 120-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .104

Ward 10
Condolence Resolution for Ruth Johnson Boseman. (R 158-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
Condolence Resolution for William David Davis. (R 157-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94

123

The City Record

34

January 30, 2019

Ward 13
#5598665. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A. Maryevan, Inc., 4920-22 Pearl Rd.
(Ward 13). (F 137-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for Charlene Crowley. (R 164-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for Christopher Ronayne. (R 167-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for James J. McMonagle. (R 166-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for Sean A. Hardy. (R 165-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Congratulations Resolution for Veronica “Vera” Casey. (R 163-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.93
.94
.94
.94
.94
.94

Ward 15
Recognition Resolution for Vietnamese Community of Greater Cleveland “Year of the Pig”. (R 168-2019) . . . . . . . .94

Ward 16
Condolence Resolution for Scot A. Palicka. (R 160-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94

Ward 17
#5669105. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5J D6. Maynard Concessions Group LLC, 5300
Riverside Dr. (Ward 17). (F 138-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
#6228007. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1. Ejaz A. Mughal, 14910 Lorain Ave. (Ward 17).
(F 139-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
To amend the title and Sections 1, 2, and 4 of Ordinance No. 700-16, passed August 10, 2016, as
amended; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new Sections 3a and 3b, relating to
the public improvement of rehabilitating the storm and sanitary sewer systems in and
around the IX Center and discharge centers and constructing infrastructure improvements
needed for the rehabilitation and to authorize a design build contract to make the
improvement and real estate and easement acquisition. (O 143-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97

Water Division
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with The Project Group for
professional assistance in investigating utility related matters pertaining to the
Divisions of Cleveland Public Power, Water and Water Pollution Control for Cleveland
City Council. (O 118-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more contracts with Great
Lakes Observing System for professional services necessary to lease, deploy, maintain,
and retrieve two buoys and sondes, and for the regular calibration, monitoring, collecting,
and measuring of Lake Erie water quality, for the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two years. (O 1400-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102

Water Pollution Control Division ( WPC )
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with The Project Group for
professional assistance in investigating utility related matters pertaining to the
Divisions of Cleveland Public Power, Water and Water Pollution Control for Cleveland
City Council. (O 118-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

Weather Forecast
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to exercise the third option to renew Contract No.
CT 3001 LS 2014-20 with Weather Forecast, Inc. of Ohio to provide for the use and
occupancy of space located in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront
Airport for weather forecasting activities. (O 80-2019) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103

124

