The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

May the Thirteenth, Two Thousand and Fifteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

15

Board of Control

15

Civil Service

20

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

27

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
30

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

31

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

31

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

31

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

31

Committee Meetings

44

Index

44

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Christopher Diehl, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Sharon Dumas, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Toinette Parrilla, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Myron Benett, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 14C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge James H. Hewitt, III – Courtroom 12A
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12B
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 13, 2015

Vol. 102

No. 5292

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MAY 11, 2015
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2015-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson (CHAIR), Dow (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Kazy, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
(VICEPruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Kazy, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Kazy, Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Kazy, Reed.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:

FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Dow (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Kelley, Mitchell.

File No. 571-15.
RE: #8758000. Transfer of Ownership Application, D2 D2X D3 D6.
Szechuan Cafe Inc., 2999 Payne Ave.
(Ward 7). Received.

Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Mitchell, Kelley, Keane,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Polensek, Pruitt.

Kelley
Keane,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, May 11, 2015
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:04 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Brian
Kazy, Kevin J. Kelley, Kenneth L.
Johnson, Martin J. Keane, Mamie J.
Mitchell, Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, and Zack Reed.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Edward W.
Rybka, Chief of Education Monyka
S. Price, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Davis, Smith,
Spronz, Cox, O’Leary, Southerington,
Nichols, Griffin, Collier, Fumich,
Ambroz and Burrows.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Father John Manning, St. Vincent
DePaul
Church,
Cleveland,
Ohio
(Ward 16). Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brancatelli, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Brady.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 570-15.
From Commissioner Dedrick C.
Stephens, Division of Assessments
and
Licenses,
Department
of
Finance, City of Cleveland. Notice of
Repeal of Fare Adjustment due to
Cost of Gasoline. Received.

669

File No. 572-15.
RE: #8320705. New License Application, C2. SMK1 Inc., 5510 St. Clair
Ave. (Ward 7). Received.
File No. 586-15.
RE: #4287510. Transfer of Location Application, D1 D2 D3 D6. JF2
Inc., 530 Euclid Ave. (Ward 3).
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 588-15 Mildred Onedia
Patton.
Res. No. 589-15 Sharron Elaine
Wheeler.
Res. No. 590-15 Grace Mildred Butler Douglass.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 591-15 John Farina.
Res. No. 592-15 Josephine & Anthony
Gabrenya
—
75th
Wedding
Anniversary.
Res. No. 593-15 Patrol Officer
Kevin Berry, Badge #209.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 594-15 American Lung
Association — LUNG FORCE –
National
Women’s
Lung
Health
Week.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord.No. 561-15.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to add the
name Stephen Halton, Jr. Way as a
secondary and honorary name to
Grovewood Avenue at Lakeshore
Boulevard.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

4
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name Stephen Halton, Jr.
Way as added as a secondary and honorary name to Grovewood Avenue at
Lakeshore Boulevard.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 562-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 4 of Ordinance
No. 984-14, passed September 8, 2014,
regarding the Residential Opiate Project grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section
4 of Ordinance No. 984-14, passed September 8, 2014, are amended to read as
follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Justice,
Bureau of Justice Assistance for the
Residential Opiate Project Grant; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more agreements with various
municipal courts, Community Assessment and Treatment Services, Moore
Counseling and Mediation Services,
and Case Western Reserve University
to implement the grant.
Section 4. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more agreements
with the municipal courts of the
Cities of East Cleveland, Euclid,
Rocky River, Shaker Heights, and
South Euclid, Community Assessment
and Treatment Services, Moore Counseling and Mediation Services, and
Case Western Reserve University to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 4 of Ordinance No. 984-14,
passed
September
8,
2014,
are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 563-15.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health
to accept a grant from the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency
for 2015-2017 financial assistance

The City Record
for the operation of the Division of
Air Quality; authorizing the director to enter into one or more contracts for various services, equipment and supplies, and contracts
with various agencies or entities
necessary to operate the Division of
Air
Quality;
determining
the
method of constructing, rehabilitating, renovating, replacing, or otherwise improving air monitoring sites
and other similar structures on cityowned and city-leased property; and
authorizing the director to enter
into one or more contracts to construct the improvement and to
design it.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to accept a
grant in the approximate amount of
$3,072,664 for each year, and any other
funds that become available during
the grant term, from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for
2015-17 financial assistance for the
operation of the Division of Air Quality in accordance with the purposes set
forth in the summary; that the Director of Public Health is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes in
the summary for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 563-15-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds
in the sum of $393,000 per year,
payable from funds appropriated in
2015, 2016, and 2017 for this purpose, in
order to receive the grant from the
Ohio
Environmental
Protection
Agency, as a pass-through from the
U.S.
Environmental
Protection
Agency, is approved in all respects,
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
grant period of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, services, and
supplies needed as described in the
file, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division of
Air Quality, Department of Public
Health. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the grant term may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery

670

May 13, 2015
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items during the
term of the grant: various types of
OEPAmonitoring
equipment,
required equipment and their associated parts, and other materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed to
implement the grant, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis, for the
Division of Air Quality, Department
of Public Health.
Section 6. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing,
or otherwise improving air monitoring sites and other similar structures
on City-owned and City-leased property (the “Improvement”), for the Division of Air Quality, Department of
Public Health, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the grant.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Health from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Health for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Health, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 9. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative agreements with
other governmental agencies. The
Director of Public Health may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 10. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with and make
payments to one or more various entities or agencies to implement the
grant as described in the file.

May 13, 2015
Section 11. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 12. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 13. That the payments and
cost of the contracts authorized in
this ordinance shall be paid from the
fund or funds which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance and from the cash match.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 564-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 489.01 to 489.06 and
489.99, relating to helicopters.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting Sections
489.01 to 489.06 and 489.99, to read as
follows:
CHAPTER 489
HELICOPTERS
Section 489.01 Definitions
As used in this chapter, certain
words and terms are defined as follows:
(a) “Helicopter” means any airborne vehicle used for the transportation of personnel or material whose
support in flight is derived from a vertical lift or force produced by the
mechanical rotation of an airfoil or
wing about an approximately vertical
axis.
(b) “Landing area” means that
approved location designated by the
Director of Public Safety, or his or her
designee, on which and from which a
helicopter is permitted to land and/or
take off.
Section 489.02 Takeoff and Landing
(a) No person shall land or take off
a helicopter anywhere in the City
other than at an approved airport or
heliport landing area, except in the
case of an emergency.
(b) The Director of Public Safety,
or his or her designee, may approve
the landing or take off of a helicopter
at an area other than an approved airport or heliport landing area, on an
individual basis, in cases of emergency, public ceremony, public necessity, or other good cause shown.
Section 489.03 Landing Area Specifications
Every landing area shall have a
hard-surfaced or grassed area, shall
be provided with good drainage and
shall be free of dust, gravel or other

The City Record
loose material. It shall be not less in
length, width or diameter than twice
the overall length of any helicopter
landing or taking off. In no instance
shall this area be smaller than 150
feet in diameter or in length of the
shortest dimension of a rectangular
area. This area shall be free of trees,
wires, or other obstructions. A rooftop
shall not be permitted as a landing
area.
Section 489.04 Permit Required
In all instances, or at other landing
areas, no person shall land a helicopter under division (b) of Section
489.02, except in cases of mechanical
emergency, without first obtaining a
permit. Terms of the permit, including but not limited to required presence of fire and police personnel and
the permissible amount of time a helicopter may remain on site, shall be at
the complete discretion of the Director of Public Safety, or his or her
designee. A pilot seeking issuance of
a helicopter permit shall file an application with the Director of Public
Safety on a form provided by the
Director. Such application form shall
require, but not be limited to, the following information:
(a) Name and address of the pilot
applying for a permit;
(b) Name and address of the organization on behalf of whom the permit
is requested;
(c) Name and address of the property owner;
(d) Date of landing, time of landing, and time of takeoff;
(e) Type of helicopter;
(f) Number of passengers; and
(g) A diagrammed site survey indicating all potential obstacles in close
proximity to the landing areas.
Section 489.05 Fees
(a) The Director of Public Safety is
authorized to charge and collect fees
for takeoff and landing permits
issued under this Chapter. The takeoff and landing permit fee shall be in
an amount fixed by the Board of Control.
(b) When the Director of Public
Safety determines it is necessary for
the safety and welfare of citizens that
safety personnel be present at any
takeoff or landing made under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter,
the Director of Public Safety may
charge and collect fees for the presence of the safety personnel, separate
from the cost of the permit. A fee
schedule
for
safety
personnel
deployed under this section shall be
established by the Board of Control,
and updated from time-to-time as necessary.
Section 489.06 Exclusions
This chapter shall not apply to life
flight operations (HEMS) or helicopter flights of the Cleveland Division of Police.
Section 489.99 Penalty
Whoever violates any provision of
this chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

671

5
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 565-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to lease certain property
located at 4115 Bridge Avenue to The
Near West Side Multi-Service Corporation, or its designee to operate the
May Dugan Multi-Service Center, for
a term up to ten years, with one tenyear option to renew, exercisable by
the Director of Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property located at 4115
Bridge Avenue, which is suitable for
lease by another party for public use;
and
Whereas, the Near West Side MultiService Center leased the property
which lease expires June of 2015; and
Whereas, the Near West Side MultiService Corporation, or its designee,
has proposed to extend the of lease
the property from the City to operate
the May Dugan Multi-Service Center;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Community
Development is authorized to lease to
The Near West Side Multi-Service Corporation, or its designee (“Lessee”),
certain property, which is suitable for
lease by another party for public use,
and is more fully described as follows:
4115 Bridge Avenue
PPN: 003-35-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being all of Sublots
Numbers 560 and 565, both inclusive,
in the Barbor and Lord Subdivision of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lots Number 51, 52, 69 and 70 as shown
by the Recorded Plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County
Records and together forming a parcel of land bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning in the Southeasterly line
of Bridge Avenue N.W. (66 feet wide)
at the most Westerly corner of said
Sublot Number 560;
Thence Northeasterly, along said
Southeasterly line of Bridge Avenue
N.W., 285.50 feet to the Southwesterly
line of Randall Road N.W. (66 feet
wide);
Thence Southeasterly, along said
Southwesterly line of Randall Road
N.W., 212.79 feet to the Northwesterly
line of Fulton court N.W. (16 feet
wide);
Thence Southwesterly along said
Northwesterly line of Fulton Court
N.W., 286.35 feet to the most Southerly
corner of said Sublot Number 560;
Thence Northwesterly, along the
Southwesterly line of said Sublot
Number 560, 198.42 feet to the place of
beginning and containing about
58,700 square feet of land, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.

6
Section 2. That the term of the lease
authorized by this ordinance shall not
exceed ten years, with one ten-year
option to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Community Development.
Section 3. That the property authorized by this ordinance shall be
leased at a rental of $1.00 per year and
other valuable considerations, which
is determined to be fair market value,
exclusive of utilities.
Section 4. That the lease may authorize the Lessee to make improvements to the leased premises subject
to the approval of appropriate City
agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of Community Development, the Director of
Law, and other appropriate City officials are authorized to execute any
other documents and certificates, and
take any other actions which may be
necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 566-15.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Pruitt and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
execute a deed of easement granting
to the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company certain easement rights
in a portion of the Cleveland Water
Division’s Nottingham Water Treatment Plant located at 1300 Chardon
Road for underground communication lines, and declaring that the easement rights granted are not needed
for the City’s public use.
Whereas, the Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company (“CEI”) has
requested the Director of Public Utilities to convey certain easement rights
in a portion of Permanent Parcel No.
114-33-001 at the Cleveland Water
Division’s Nottingham Water Treatment Plant located at 1300 Chardon
Road for underground communication cables; and
Whereas, CEI requires the easement to install an underground conduit as part of their larger-scale project designed to handle future load
growth for the Cleveland Clinic; and
Whereas, the easement rights to be
granted are not needed for the City’s
public use; and
Whereas, the book value of the
property transferred is less than one
percent (1%) of the total assets of the
Division of Water; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
an easement interest in the following
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:
Legal Description for
Nottingham Substation Underground
Communication Cables Right of Way
through land of City of Cleveland
Department of Public Utilities
Division of Water –
Chardon Road, Cleveland, Ohio
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
Euclid Township Tract Number 14,
being part of a tract of land conveyed
to the City of Cleveland by Resolution
recorded in Automatic File Number
200402130397 of Cuyahoga County
Records and Annexed to the City of
Cleveland by Cleveland Ordinance
No. 1155-03, passed August 13, 2003
and Euclid Ordinance No. 169-2003,
passed September 2, 2003 being further bounded and described as follows:
Commencing at a mag nail set at
the intersection of the Municipal line
between the City of Euclid and the
City of Cleveland with the centerline
of Chardon Road (60 feet wide);
thence North 27°05'17" West along
said centerline of centerline of
Chardon Road, a distance of 58.47 feet
to a point thereon; thence South
60°55'34" West, a distance of 30.02
feet to a 5/8" iron pin set and capped
on the Westerly right of way of said
Chardon Road and being the Point of
Beginning of the Easement herein
described;
Course Number 1:
Thence South 60°55'34" West, a distance of 214.34 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set and capped;
Course Number 2:
Thence North 27°29'17" West, a distance of 17.58 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
and capped on the fence line of the
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Electric Substation;
Course Number 3:
Thence North 63°07'25" East along
said fence line of the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Electric Substation,
a distance of 30.00 feet to a 5/8" iron
pin set and capped on the fence line of
the Cleveland Public Power Electric
Substation;
Course Number 4:
Thence South 27°29'17" East along
said fence line of the Cleveland Public Power Electric Substation and the
extension thereof, a distance of 11.43
feet to a 5/8" iron pin set and capped;
Course Number 5:
Thence North 60°55'34" East, a distance of 54.63 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
and capped;
Course Number 6:
Thence North 36°00'40" East, a distance of 16.70 feet to point;
Course Number 7:
Thence North 86°15'30" East, a distance of 16.44 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
and capped;

672

May 13, 2015
Course Number 8:
Thence North 60°55'34" East, a distance of 99.73 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
and capped on said Westerly right of
way of Chardon Road;
Course Number 9:
Thence South 27°05'17" East along
said Westerly right of way of
Chardon Road, a distance of 5.00 feet
to the Point of Beginning and containing 1,537 Square Feet or 0.0353
Acres of land more or less, as surveyed and described by Scott J. Casey,
Professional Surveyor Number 8219
on October 26th of 2014 and being subject to all legal highways, easements,
reservations or restrictions of record.
Bearings are based on Volume 330,
Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records.
All iron pins set are 5/8" diameter
by 30" long rebar with plastic identification caps reading “Casey Professional Services, P.S. 8219”.
Based on an actual field survey performed by: Scott Casey, P.S., Casey
Professional Services, LLC, 1159
Holmden Avenue, Cleveland, OH
44109
Section 2. That the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized
to convey the above-described easement interest to CEI subject to any
conditions stated in this ordinance at
a price of $850.00, which is determined
to be fair market value, and shall be
deposited in accordance with the
trust indenture.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to implement
CEI’s larger-scale project designed to
handle future load growth for the
Cleveland Clinic.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that the
easement shall not be assignable
without the consent of the Director of
Public Safety; that the easement shall
require that CEI provide reasonable
insurance,
maintain
any
CEI
improvements located within the
easement; pay any applicable taxes
and assessments; and shall contain
such other terms and conditions that
the Director of Law determines to be
necessary to protect and benefit the
City.
Section 5. That the conveyance referenced above shall be made by official deed of easement prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Director of Public Safety on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The Directors
of Public Safety and Law are authorized to execute any other documents,
including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as may be
necessary to effect this ordinance.
Section 6. That the City acknowledges, states and affirms, under Section 8.06 of the Amended and Restated
Trust Indenture, effective October 5,
2001, that the City desires and
requests that certain portion of its
land heretofore subject to the Indenture be released and removed from all
obligations under the Indenture. Further, the City acknowledges, state
and affirms that it is not in default
under the Indenture and that release
of the land is necessary in order to
serve the public purpose.
Section 7. The Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to apply to U.S.
Bank,
National
Association,
as

May 13, 2015
trustee, for a land release under the
Indenture.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 567-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to accept
a gift from MCPc, Inc. of Cisco WiFi
equipment, access points with mounting brackets, and licenses for the
Cisco Wireless Controller.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to accept a gift
of Cisco WiFi equipment, up to seventy-five (75) access points with mounting brackets, and licenses for the
Cisco Wireless Controller, from
MCPc, Inc., valued at $63,120.00.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into an
agreement with MCPc, Inc. to effectuate the gift and the agreement shall
include, but not be limited to, terms
that provide warranties to the City
and indemnification of the City for
infringement and other potential
claims.
Section 3. That the gift shall take
effect on the effective date of the
agreement described in this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 568-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
accept a donation of land from Cuyahoga County located on a portion of
the Lorain Avenue access drive to the
West Side Market and to enter into an
agreement for the donation; or, in the
alternative, authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
purchase the property from Cuyahoga
County.
Whereas, Cuyahoga County (the
“County”) owns property located on a
portion of the Lorain Avenue access
drive to the West Side Market; and
Whereas, the County wishes to
donate the land on the access drive to
the City of Cleveland for purposes of
making a parking lot improvement at
the West Side Market; and
Whereas, the requested donation is
pending approval by the County
Council; and
Whereas, if the County Council
does not approve the donation, the
Director of Public Works is requesting, in the alternative, to purchase the
property; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to accept, on
behalf of the City of Cleveland, a
donation of land from the County on a
portion of the Lorain Avenue access
drive to the West Side Market, more
fully described as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio:
And known as being part of Sublot
No. 241 in the Willeyville Allotment of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lots Nos. 69 and 70, as shown by plat
recorded in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 16
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
present Northerly line of Lorain
Avenue, 66 feet wide, with the Easterly line of West 24th Street, 66 feet
wide; thence North 30° 34’ 35” West
along said Easterly line of West 24th
Street 150 feet to the Southerly line of
Moore Court, N.W.; thence North 59°
30’ 10” East along the Southerly line
of Moore Court N.W. 14.734 feet to

7
intersection with a proposed turnout;
thence Southeasterly along said
turnout on a curved line deflecting to
the left 103.72 feet; said curve having
a radius of166.50 feet and the chord of
whose arc bears South 53° 48’ 45” East
102.05 feet to a point in the Easterly
line of said Sublot No. 241; thence
South 30° 34’ 35” East along the Easterly line of Sublot No. 241, 56.48 feet to
the present Northerly line of Lorain
Avenue, 66 feet wide; thence South 59°
42’ 10” West along the Northerly line
of Lorain Avenue, 55 feet to the place
of beginning, containing about 5820
square feet be the same more or less
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
an Agreement with the County for the
donation and to execute all documents on behalf of the City of Cleveland necessary to effectuate this ordinance.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
and as an alternate to Sections 1 and 2
of this ordinance, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to purchase the property
described above. The consideration to
be paid for the property shall not
exceed fair market value as determined by the Board of Control.
Section 4. That, as an alternate to
Sections 1 and 2 of this ordinance, the
Director of Public Works is authorized to execute on behalf of the City
of Cleveland all necessary documents
to effect the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 5. That all costs of acquiring, accepting, and recording the land
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF
517, 20 SF 524, 20 SF 532, 20 SF 539, 20
SF 545, 20 SF 551, 20 SF 553, 20 SF 559,
20 SF 562, 20 SF 566, 20 SF 843, and 20
SF 869.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.

Ord. No. 569-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 1 and 3 of Ordinance No. 752-12, passed June 4, 2012, relating to the purchase, lease, or lease with option to purchase, of various on-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other aftermarket items, for the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 3 of Ordinance No. 751-12, passed June 4, 2012, are amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one or more written standard purchase and written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the period of
requirements of one year, for the necessary items required for the purchase, lease, or lease with option to purchase, various on-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other aftermarket items necessary to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes, including labor and materials necessary for vehicle
rehabilitation, training, and inspections, as needed, in the estimated sum of $6,212,500, to be purchased or procured by
the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the various divisions of City government, as described
below:

673

The City Record

8
Item
Number

User

Item Description

May 13, 2015
Quantity

Estimated
Cost

Extended
Est. Cost

ENTERPRISE FUND 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Runway Snow Blower
Runway Broom Head Replacement
Pickup Trucks
SUV’s
K-9 Police Cars
Electric Passenger Cars
Small Tow Truck

Port
Port
Port
Port
Port
Port
Port

Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control

1
2
16
4
3
4
1

650,000
85,000
25,000
30,000
30,000
40,000
60,000
Total:

8
9
10
11
12

Construction Excavator
40 Ton Trailer for Excavator
Utility Truck
4X4 SUV
*Cab/Chassis w/Sewer Cleaner Body

WPC
WPC
WPC
WPC
WPC

1
1
2
1
1

130,000
30,000
60,000
35,000
70,000

650,000
170,000
400,000
120,000
90,000
160,000
60,000
1,650,000
130,000
30,000
120,000
35,000
70,000

* Sewer Cleaner pricing based on Lease Purchase Plan. Six annual payments of $60,000 each year
Total
13
14
15
16

CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP

60 Ft. Bucket Truck
Digger Derrick Trucks
Cable Cart
Chipper

4
2
1
1

235,000
210,000
165,000
60,000
Total

17

CCA

Passenger Car-Mid Size

1

30,000
Total

18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26

Tag Along Air Compressors
Van-Cargo
Pickup Truck-Crew Cab
Pickup Truck-Full size
Van-Cargo Full Size
SUV-Compact
Cab/Chassis w/Flat Bed Crane
Cab/Chassis w/Tandem Dump
Off-Road Utility Vehicles

Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water

10
11
4
10
19
2
2
2
6

26,000
27,000
27,000
25,000
26,500
22,000
275,000
225,000
15,000

395,000
940,000
420,000
165,000
60,000
1,585,000
30,000
30,000
260,000
297,000
108,000
250,000
503,500
44,000
550,000
450,000
90,000

Total

2,552,500

Grand Total

6,212,500

Alternate bids for a period less than one year may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the requirements for the entire year.
Section 3. That under Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other governmental agencies. The Director of Public Works may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 2. That existing Sections 1 and 3 of Ordinance No. 751-12, passed June 4, 2012, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Works, Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.

Ord. No. 579-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the procurement by one or more
requirement contracts of the rental of
heavy-duty equipment, snow removal
equipment and equipment operators
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which
shall require additional legislative
authority.

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period up to
two years, with two one-year options

674

to renew, of the necessary items of the
rental of heavy-duty equipment, snow
removal equipment and equipment
operators in the approximate amount
as procured during the preceding
term, to be procured by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control. The
first of the one-year options to renew
shall not be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such
additional legislative authority is

May 13, 2015
granted and the first of the one-year
options to renew is exercised, then the
second of the one-year options to
renew shall be exercisable at the
option of the Director of Port Control,
without the necessity of obtaining
additional authority of this Council.
Bids shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
procurement, which procurement,
together with all later procurements,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance. (RQN 3001, RL
2015-21)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 580-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement
contracts
of
FAAapproved deicing chemicals, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control, for a period of two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which shall require
additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, of the necessary items of
FAA-approved deicing chemicals, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. The first
of the one-year options to renew may
not be exercised without additional

The City Record
legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted
and the first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second of
the one-year options to renew may be
exercised at the option of the Director
of Port Control, without the necessity
of obtaining additional authority of
this Council. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 3001, RL 2015-22)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 581-15.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of reconstructing a portion of East 29th Street; authorizing
the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into one or more contracts, for
the construction, design, and any
other agreements; and authorizing
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies to acquire for right-of-way
purposes real property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of reconstructing
East 29th Street from Community College Way to Central Avenue (the
“Improvement”), for the Department
of Capital Projects, by one or more
contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement.

675

9
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the Improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to design
the Improvement.
The selection of the consultant or
consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Capital
Projects from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Capital Projects for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation to
be paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract
or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Capital
Projects, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 5. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire for right-of-way purposes
such real property as is necessary to
make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid for the property shall
not exceed fair market value.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire the property and
to employ and pay all fees for title
companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, review appraisers, and all other
costs necessary for the acquisition of
the property.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity; and that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive any
funds or services; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 8. That, when appropriate,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the railroads, the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority, the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District, and other entities to
obtain services or to acquire property
rights such as easements and licenses,
necessary
to
construct
the
improvements described in this ordinance.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept a

10
cash contribution from public or private entities for the improvement.
That the Director of Capital Projects
is authorized to enter into agreements
with the entities for this purpose and
to cause payment for those purposes.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with private utility companies to pay charges
for the design and installation of
underground lines in connection with
the improvement.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the Improvement.
Section 12. That the cost of the
Improvement, contracts, property
acquisition, or other expenditure
authorized in this ordinance shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF
528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20
SF 554, 20 SF 563, from the fund or
funds to which are credited any cash
contribution, payment, grant, or gift
accepted under this ordinance, and
any funds approved by the Director of
Finance for this purpose. RQS 0103,
RL 2015-78
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 582-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of repairing and maintaining runways, taxiways, ramps,
roads, and other concrete surfaces for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control, and authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter
into one or more public improvement
requirement contracts for the making
of the improvement, for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, the first of which shall
require additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of repairing and
maintaining
runways,
taxiways,
ramps, roads, and other concrete surfaces for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, by one or
more public improvement requirement contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders on a
unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, for the making of the above
public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after

The City Record
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement for a period not
to exceed the specified term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. The first
of the one-year options to renew may
not be exercised without additional
legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted
and the first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second of
the one-year options to renew may be
exercisable at the option of the Director of Port Control, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority
of this Council. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 3. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to apply and pay
for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts or other expenditures shall be charged against the
proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify
the amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a delivery
order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RQN 3001, RL 2015-20)
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 583-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. PS 2013-147 with Youth
Opportunities Unlimited, Inc. to provide for the administration, implementation, and management of the
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program; and to amend the contract to change certain terms.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 747-12, passed June 4,
2012, the Director of Port Control

676

May 13, 2015
entered into Contract No. PS 2012-145
with Youth Opportunities Unlimited,
Inc. (“YOU”) to provide for the administration, implementation, and management of the 2012 Cleveland Youth
Summer Employment Program; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 747-12, the Director
exercised a first option to renew the
YOU agreement and entered into Contract No.PS 2013-147; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 747-12
requires further legislation before
exercising the second option to
renew; and
Whereas, the Department of Port
Control and YOU have agreed to make
mutually beneficial changes to the
Contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
second option to renew Contract No.
PS 2013-147 with YOU for an additional year at a cost not to exceed $87,200.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. PS 2013147 with YOU to expand the program
to include college students pursuing
careers in aviation.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract amendment shall be paid from
Fund No. 60 SF 001, RQS 3001, RL 201566.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 584-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County, for the FY14 Urban
Area Security Initiative Program;
authorizing one or more requirement
and standard contracts for the purchase of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary for the
purchase of equipment, planning,
training and exercises.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $482,500, and any other
funds that become available, from
Cuyahoga County, to conduct the
FY14 Urban Area Security Initiative
(“UASI”) Program; that the Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes set forth in the grant
agreement for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the agreement for
the grant, File No. 584-15-A, made a

May 13, 2015
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written standard purchase
contracts and written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, during the grant term, of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services needed to implement the program as described in the file, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Public
Safety. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines.
Section 4. That the costs of the
requirement
contract
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of
Finance shall certify the amount of
the initial purchase, which purchase,
together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant.
Section 7. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 585-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Contract No. PS 2015-14 with Glaus,
Pyle, Schomer, Burns and Dehaven
for professional services necessary to
design the Primary Road fire and
domestic water line improvements;
and to amend the title and Sections 1
and 5 of Ordinance No. 744-13, passed
July 10, 2013 relating to the design
and public improvement of the project.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 74413, passed July 10,2 013, this Council
authorized the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts necessary for
replacing fire and domestic water
lines along the Primary Road at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, and authorized its design; and

The City Record
Whereas, under the authority of
that ordinance, the Director of Port
Control entered into Contract No. PS
2015-14 with Glaus, Pyle, Schomer,
Burns and Dehaven for professional
services necessary to design the
improvement; and
Whereas, after the professional services contract was executed and
before the public improvement contract was entered into, it was discovered that the other lines along Primary Road should be replaced as well;
and
Whereas, additional services are
desired by the City from Glaus, Pyle,
Schomer, Burns and Dehaven to
design the replacement of sanitary
and other utility lines as well under
City Contract No. PS 2015-14; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. PS 2015-14
with Glaus, Pyle, Schomer, Burns and
Dehaven to include the additional
design component of replacing sanitary and other utility lines along Primary Road at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport between Pump
Houses 1 and 2 and to the Terminal,
along with associated laterals feeding the hangar buildings along the
road, including components and parts
housed within the pump houses.
Section 2. That the title and Sections 1 and 5 of Ordinance No. 744-13,
passed July 10, 2013 are amended to
read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of replacing fire, domestic water lines, sanitary, and other
utility lines along the Primary Road
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport; and authorizing the Director
of Port Control to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement;
and authorizing the Director to
employ one or more professional consultants to design the improvement.
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of replacing fire,
domestic water lines, sanitary, and
other utility lines along the Primary
Road at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for the Department of
Port Control, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 5. That the cost of the professional services, improvement and
other expenditures authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60
SF 104, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 112, 60 SF 114,
60 SF 115, 60 SF 116, 60 SF 117, 60 SF
119, 60 SF 121, 60 SF 122, 60 SF126, 60
SF 128, 60 SF 130, 60 SF 141, 60 SF 160,
and from the fund or funds to which
are credited any grants received for
this purpose, passenger facility
charges, or airport revenue bonds, if
authorized for this purpose, Request
No. RQS 3001, RL 2013-102 and RQS
3001, RL 2015-65.
Section 3. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 5 of Ordinance No.
744-13, passed July 10, 2013 are
repealed.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract amendment and the Improvement shall not exceed $450,000, and

677

11
shall be paid from 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104,
60 SF 106, 60 SF 112, 60 SF 114, 60 SF
115, 60 SF 116, 60 SF126, 60 SF 128, 60
SF 130, 60 SF 141, 60 SF 160, and from
the fund or funds to which are credited any grants received for this purpose, passenger facility charges, or
airport revenue bonds, if authorized
for this purpose, (RQS 3001, RL 201565)
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 578-15.
By Council Member Zone (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution approving the continuation of the Gordon
Square Arts District - Cleveland
Improvement District as a Special
Improvement District in the City;
accepting petitions from owners of
property in the District; approving an
amendment to the Articles of Incorporation of the Gordon Square Arts District - Cleveland Improvement Corporation; approving a new plan for public services; declaring it necessary to
provide cleaning and maintenance of
the public rights-of-way, additional
security, and collective marketing for
the District; and providing for the
assessment of the cost of such work
upon benefited property in the District; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas, Chapter 1710 of the Ohio
Revised Code (the “Revised Code”)
authorizes the formation of special
improvement districts within the
boundaries of a municipality by
petition of property owners in a district and approval by the municipality for the purpose of developing
and implementing plans for public
improvements and public services
that benefit a district; and
Whereas, owners of at least sixty
percent of the front footage of all
real property located in the Gordon
Square Arts District - Cleveland
Improvement
District
(the
“District”) that abuts upon any street,
alley, public road, place, boulevard,
parkway, park entrance, easement,
or other existing public improvement within the District, excluding
certain property as provided in Section 1710.02(E) of the Revised Code,
have signed petitions (the “Petitions”) requesting that the City of
Cleveland (“the City”) continue the
District consisting generally of that
portion of the City that abuts upon
Detroit Avenue between West 58th
Street, on the east, and West 73rd
Street, on the west, including additional assessed front footage to the
north on West 65th Street and on
West 67th Street as described in this
ordinance; and
Whereas, the District is governed
by the Gordon Square Arts District
- Cleveland Improvement Corporation (the “Corporation”), an Ohio
nonprofit corporation formed under
Chapters 1702 and 1710 of the
Revised Code; and

12
Whereas, under Section 1710.02(F)
of the Revised Code, the petitioners
have proposed a new plan for public services benefitting all of the
District (the “Plan”) and have submitted the Plan as part of the Petitions proposing continuation of the
District; and
Whereas, the Petitions, including
the amendment to the Articles of
Incorporation of the Corporation
(the “amendment to the Articles”)
and the Plan, have been filed with
the Clerk of Council and the Mayor
of the City; and
Whereas, under Section 1710.02(E)
of the Revised Code, the City has
sixty days to approve or disapprove
the Petitions by resolution; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Petitions, including the amendment to the Articles
and the Plan, are accepted and
approved and are placed in File No.
578-15-A.
Section 2. That, under Chapter 1710
of the Revised Code, the District, is
hereby continued with boundaries as
follows:
Along Detroit Avenue, bounded by
West 58th Street, on the east, and
West 73rd Street, on the west including additional assessed front footage
north on West 65th Street and West
67th Street, as shown on the amendment to the Articles on file with the
Clerk of Council.
Section 3. That it is determined and
declared necessary and conducive to
the public health, convenience and
welfare of the City to provide additional cleaning and maintenance of
the public rights-of-way within the
District, additional security for the
District, and collective marketing of
the District for a five-year period commencing after passage of the ordinance to proceed in this matter.
Section 4. That it is determined that
the property contained within the District will be specially benefited by the
above described public services and
shall be assessed to pay for the cost of
the services, calculated in proportion
to the benefits that may result from
the services.
Section 5. That the Plan placed in
the above mentioned file is approved
at an estimated cost of $600,000.
Section 6. That the entire cost of the
Plan in the District be specially
assessed in proportion to the benefits
that may result from the services
within the District. The cost of the
Plan shall include the cost of printing, serving, and publishing notices,
resolutions, and ordinances, the costs
incurred in connection with the preparation, levy, and collection of the special assessments, expenses of legal
services, the cost of all labor and
materials and all other necessary
expenditures allowed by law.
Section 7. That the assessments to
be levied shall be paid when levied in
five annual installments. The first
through fifth annual installments
shall be payable in cash on or before
January 15 in each of the years 2016
through 2020. All assessments and
installments which have not been
paid shall be certified by the Clerk of
Council to the County Auditor on or
before September 1 of each year, to be

The City Record
placed by him or her on the tax duplicate and collected the same as other
taxes, as provided by law.
Section 8. That no notes or bonds of
the City shall be issued in anticipation of the levy or collection of the
special assessments.
Section 9. That the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses is authorized to prepare and separately file
with the Clerk of Council an estimated assessment under the provisions of
this resolution showing the amount of
the assessment against each lot or
parcel of land to be assessed. Such
estimated assessment shall be based
on the estimated cost of the Plan.
After the estimated special assessments have been filed, the Clerk of
Council shall cause notice of the adoption of this resolution and the filing of
the estimated special assessments to
be served in the manner provided by
law on the owners of all lots and
parcels to be assessed.
Section 10. That this Council finds
and determines that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the Council and that all deliberations of the Council and of any of
its committees that resulted in those
formal actions were in meetings open
to the public in compliance with the
law.
Section 11. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance.
Res. No. 587-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution urging
the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security agents and administration,
U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services, the White House, and all relevant agencies, to expeditiously assist
veteran Staff Sgt. Elizabeth Perez to
immediately return her husband, Marcos Perez, to the United States to
reunite the Perez family of Cleveland,
Ohio, so that Mrs. Perez, a daughter
and sister of our city, can enjoy the
fullest support she needs and has
earned as a veteran of these United
States of America.
Whereas,
Staff
Sgt.
Elizabeth
Perez USMC, was born in East
Cleveland, Ohio, in 1978, and lived
with
her
family
on
Allendale,
between
Euclid
and
Terrace
Avenue, and has lived in the City of
Cleveland and surrounding locations
since; and
Whereas, she served our country
with honor and distinction both in
the Ohio Army National Guard, and
the U.S. Marine Corps, for a total of
ten years; and
Whereas, she and her husband
Marcos have lived apart since June
of 2010 when Marcos was deported
to Mexico after a traffic stop, and
they are the parents of two young
boys, Pele, 5, and Rocky, 4, who
have spent their entire lives apart
from their father; and
Whereas, the children have known
him only through daily phone calls

678

May 13, 2015
and Skype for the past five years,
and a couple of short visits to Mexico, and Mrs. Perez struggles economically near poverty, and also
emotionally without the support of
her husband; and
Whereas, Mrs. Perez is a combat
veteran who relies on support from
her 80% service-connected disability,
and receives weekly care at the
Cleveland VA hospital, and is therefore unable to move to Mexico
because the medical care she needs
would unavailable to her; and
Whereas, their children need the
support of their father so that they
can thrive and reach their fullest
potential; and
Whereas, the Obama administration recognizes that a special debt
is owed to military veterans, as outlined in a 2013 memo released by the
Department of Homeland Security,
which states: “We as a nation have
made a commitment to our veterans,
to support and care for them. It is
a commitment that begins at enlistment and continues as they become
veterans.”; and
Whereas, in Mrs. Perez’s singular
mission to reunite her family, she
has faced an unresponsive bureaucracy and indifferent officials and,
the effort has taken away from her
ability to be all she can for her children and community; and
Whereas, Mr. and Mrs. Perez will
be assets to our community, and
each passing day that this family is
separated intensifies their despair
and longing; without their father,
the children will suffer a disadvantage in their upbringing; and
Whereas, this Council respectfully
urges that this family be reunified
in the most expeditious manner, and
that Mr. Marcos Perez be released
into the U.S. so that the Perez’s can
raise their minor children together
and live as a family; and
Whereas, this Council supports
this critical humanitarian gesture
which will ensure the proper care
and health not only of their children, but Staff Sgt. Elizabeth Perez,
too; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security agents and administration,
U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services, the White House, and all relevant agencies, to expeditiously assist
veteran Staff Sgt. Elizabeth Perez to
immediately return her husband, Marcos Perez, to the United States, to
reunite the Perez family of Cleveland,
Ohio, so that Mrs. Perez, a daughter
and sister of our city can enjoy the
fullest support she needs and has
earned as a veteran of these United
States of America.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
resolution
to
Veronica
Isabel
Dahlberg, Executive Director, HOLA
Ohio.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

May 13, 2015
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 559-15.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with Mt. Pleasant NOW
Development Corporation for the Mt.
Pleasant Historical Markers Project
through the use of Ward 2 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement with The Mt. Pleasant
NOW Development Corporation for
the Mt. Pleasant Historical Markers
Project for the public purpose of providing public art with historical content on the Mt. Pleasant neighborhood
in the city of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 2 casino revenue funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $18,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 560-15.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Public Health to enter into an agreement with Union Miles Development
Corporation for the Health and
Human Services Community Fair
through the use of Ward 2 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Health is authorized to enter into an agreement with
the Union Miles Development Corporation for the Health and Human Services Community Fair for the public
purpose of providing health education and health screenings to city of

The City Record
Cleveland residents through the use
of Ward 2 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $26,587 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 573-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to St.
Wendelin Parish to stretch a banner
on Columbus Avenue, adjacent to the
parish, for the period from May 13,
2015 to June 12, 2015, inclusive, welcoming the community.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Department
of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to
St. Wendelin Parish to stretch a banner on Columbus Avenue, adjacent to
the parish, for the period from May 13,
2015 to June 12, 2015, inclusive. Said
banner shall be approved by the
Director of Capital Projects, in consultation with the Director of Public
Safety, as to type, method of affixing
and location so as not to interfere
with any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner of
any pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial
advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed promptly upon
the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

679

13
Ord. No. 574-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to the
Apostolic Faith Tabernacle, City of
Hope Ministries to stretch a banner on
the east and west corner of East 105th
& Columbia Avenue, for the period
from May 13, 2015 to June 12, 2015,
publicizing Friends & Family Weekend on June 12, 2015.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Department
of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to
the Apostolic Faith Tabernacle, City
of Hope Ministries to stretch a banner
on the east and west corner of East
105th & Columbia Avenue, for the
period from May 13, 2015 to June 12,
2015, inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Capital
Projects, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so as
not to interfere with any sign erected
and maintained under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner of any pole from
which a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall
be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 575-15.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Zone.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Cleveland Triathlon on
July 26, 2015, sponsored by Pacific
Sports LLC.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Cleveland Triathlon on July 26,
2015, start: Voinivich Park; Swim
Course: North Coast Harbor area;
Bike Course: Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway from East 9th Street to
West Boulevard (eastbound Shoreway only); Run Course: Cleveland
Memorial Shoreway and Lakeside
Avenue; provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined

14
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 576-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Gold Jacket 5K on June
7, 2015, sponsored by the Pro Football
Hall of Fame.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Gold Jacket 5K on June 7, 2015,
start: Lakeside Avenue at Mall C;
Lakeside east to East 18th Street;
East 18th south to Carnegie Avenue;
Carnegie west to East 9th Street; East
9th north to St. Clair Avenue; St. Clair
west to West 3rd Street; West 3rd
north to Lakeside Avenue; Lakeside
east to Mall C—Finish Line; provided
that the applicant sponsor shall meet
all the requirements of Section 411.05
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed
as determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants in
the event. Said permit shall further
provide that the City of Cleveland
shall be fully indemnified from any
and all liability resulting from the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 577-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Susan G. Komen Race
for the Cure on September 12, 2015,
managed by Hermes Sports & Events,
Inc.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure
on September 12, 2015, start: Lakeside
Avenue and East 6th Street; Lakeside
east to East 18th Street; East 18th
south to Euclid Avenue; Euclid west
to East 12th Street; East 12th north to
Lakeside Avenue; Lakeside west to
East 9th Street; East 9th north to
Erieside Avenue; Erieside west to
West 3rd Street; West 3rd south to
Lakeside Avenue; Lakeside east to
Mall C—Finish Line; provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 438-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady, Reed and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into contract with the Ohio
Department of Health to perform
investigations of violations regarding smoking in workplaces and other
public places.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 439-15.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into contract with the Ohio
Department of Health to perform
environmental lead investigations of
residences of Medicaid-eligible and
non-Medicaid-eligible children; and to
enter into one or more contracts with
various agencies, entities, or individuals to provide services necessary to
implement this ordinance.

680

May 13, 2015
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 445-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 830-14, passed August 20, 2014,
relating to applying for and accepting a grant from the Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management District
for the Solid Waste Disposal Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 446-15.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Commission on Minority Health
for the 2015-17 Cleveland Office on
Minority Health Grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 447-15.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health for the
2015-17 Cities Readiness Initiative
Program; authorizing one or more
contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals; and authorizing
the purchase or lease of television
and radio advertising time and other
media.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 448-15.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health for
the 2015-17 Public Health Emergency
Preparedness Grant Program, Emergency Ebola Supplemental.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

May 13, 2015

The City Record

15
requirements in local public improvement contracts.
Approved by Director of Law; Adoption recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 449-15.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health for
the 2015-17 Public Health Emergency
Preparedness Grant Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 484-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contracts with
one or more non-profit agencies to
operate a community garden program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 478-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant funds and Federal HOME funds
for the operation of the Low Interest
Loan and Grant Programs; and to
enter into one or more contracts with
various agencies to implement these
programs.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 515-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax
Bonds to refund all or a portion of outstanding Series 2008 bonds issued to
refinance a payment to the Police and
Fire Pension Fund to obtain debt service savings and authorizing and
approving related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:17 p.m. to meet on Monday, May 18,
2015, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Ord. No. 524-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to employ
one or more professional consultants
to provide workers’ compensation and
actuarial services, for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of
Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:

Ord. No. 479-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contracts for
Commercial
Revitalization
and
rebate, grant, and/or loan agreements with Storefront Renovation
Program applicants, and to enter into
agreements for eligible costs to community development corporations for
implementation of the Storefront Renovation and Commercial Revitalization Programs.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 483-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant funds for anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance, financial literacy programs,
fair housing, and administrative
costs to implement the programs.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 544-15.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an amendment to the agreement with
Saint Martin De Porres High School
Work Study Program, City Contract
No. 2014-108 for additional money in
order to continue participation under
the agreement as a sponsor of students for work/study positions with
Cleveland City Council.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 529-15.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Kelley, Reed, Pruitt, Cleveland,
Mitchell, Keane, Brady, Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Dow, Polensek, Conwell,
Brancatelli, Cummins, Kazy, and
Zone.
An emergency resolution opposing
proposed House Bill 180 and Senate
Bill 152 that would prohibit residency

681

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brancatelli, the absence of Council
Member Matthew Zone is hereby
authorized.
Seconded by Council
Member Brady.
MOTION

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR

NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

May 6, 2015
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, May 6, 2015 at
10:43 a.m. with Acting Director Horvath presiding.
Present: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Tiffany White, Commissioner, Division of Purchases & Supplies.
William Sonntag, Acting Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 162-15.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Commercial Door Service, Inc.,
dba Cleveland Key & Security, for
an estimated quantity of keys, locks
and hardware services, all items, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period of two years
starting upon the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration of the current contract, received on March 25, 2015,
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the

16

The City Record

basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $250,000.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the labor
and materials necessary for the
specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such labor and materials,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction Co., Inc. for the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is approved:

Resolution No. 163-15.
By Interim Director Dumas.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Bonded Chemicals, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of sodium
hypochlorite solution, items 1A and
1B, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods or services, received
on March 13, 2015 under the authority of Section 129.24 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$2,071,500.00 (0%, Net 30 Days), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary for
the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

Resolution No. 165-15.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance Nos. 2380-02, 468-04, 185306 and 1329-08, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland on
December 16, 2002, April 26, 2004,
December 11, 2006 and October 20,
2008, respectively, and Board of Control Resolution No. 348-11, adopted
July 20, 2011, the City through its
Director of Port Control, entered
into Contract No. PS2011*185 with S.
B. Friedman & Company (“Consultant”), to provide professional services necessary to prepare planning
studies for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control for
a period of two years, with two twoyear options to renew; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Board of Control Resolution No. 15512, adopted April 25, 2012, the City,
through its Director of Port Control,
entered into a First Modification to
City Contract No. PS2011*185, revising the scope of work and increasthe
compensation
from
an
ing
amount not to exceed $289,000.00 to
an amount not to exceed $475,080.00;
and
Whereas, the City has determined
the need to update a comprehensive
development plan for a mixed-use
hotel, office, retail and ground
transportation complex at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport; and
Whereas, the Consultant has proposed by its letter dated April 17,
2015 to perform the additional work
necessary
for
an
amount
of
$134,250.00; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a Second
Modification to City Contract No.
PS2011*185 between the City of
Cleveland and S. B. Friedman &
Company to update a comprehensive
development plan for a mixed-use
hotel, office, retail and ground
transportation complex at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport as set
forth in Consultant’s letters dated
April 17, 2015. The amount to be
paid
for
all
services
shall
be
increased
by
$134,250.00
from
$475,080.00 to a total amount not to
exceed $609,330.00.
Be it further resolved that the
amounts attributed to the following
subconsultants approved in Board of
Control Resolution No. 155-12, adopted April 25, 2012, are amended as
follows:

Resolution No. 164-15.
By Interim Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Terrace Construction Co.,
Inc. for the public improvement of
Massie Avenue Sewer Replacement
Project (Base Bid All Items including the 10% contingency allowance)
for the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities, received on February 27, 2015,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
991-14, passed November 17, 2014,
upon a unit basis for the improvement, in the aggregate amount of
$1,172,900.18,
is
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into contract for the improvement with the
bidder.

SUBCONTRACTOR

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK

Rockport Construction
CSB/FBE
$275,000.00(23.45%)
The Vallejo Company
CSB/FBE
$77,325.00(6.59%)
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

682

May 13, 2015
Subconsultant

Percentage
Amount

McGuiness Unlimited,
Inc.
1.54%CSB/FBE
$9,400.00
City Architecture, Inc.

Berusch Development
Partners, LLC

Hotel & Leisure
Advisors, LLC

10.28%CSB
$62,600.00

5.89%CSB
$35,900.00

Non-Certified
$26,800.00

Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 155-12
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Dumas,
Director/Interim
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 166-15.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 740-13, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
July 10, 2013, the firm of URS Corporation (“Consultant”) is selected
upon the nomination of the Director
of Port Control from a list of qualified persons or firms determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control as the
firm of consultants available to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to
provide professional services necessary to provide architectural and
engineering support services and
program management in connection
with the public improvement of relocating the Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting Facility and the Consolidated Maintenance Facility to the
Benjamin O. Davis Aviation High
School at Burke Lakefront Airport,
for the Department of Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with URS Corporation for the abovementioned services, based upon its
proposal dated March 25, 2015, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide that
the compensation to URS Corporation for the services authorized
shall not exceed $647,047.00 for the
duration of the contract and shall
contain such other provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control that the employment of
the following sub-consultants by URS
Corporation is approved:
Sub-consultant

Percentage
Amount

McGuiness Unlimited
6.182%CSB/FBE
$40,000.00

The City Record

May 13, 2015
H2L1 Engineering, Inc.
1.545%CSB/MBE
$10,000.00
Solar Testing Laboratories,
Inc.
2.280%CSB
$14,755.00
KS Associates, Inc.

FBE
$13,500.00

Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 167-15.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 562-14, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 9, 2014, the firm of Vertex Computer Systems, Inc. (“Consultant”) is
selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Port Control from a list
of qualified persons or firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control
as the firm of consultants available
to be employed by contract to provide professional services necessary
to provide technical support and
maintenance of core information
technology
activities,
and
other
related services for the Department
of Port Control, for a period of one
year, with one one-year option to
renew.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Vertex Computer Systems, Inc.
for the above-mentioned services,
based
upon
its
proposal
dated
November 21, 2014, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide that the compensation to Vertex Computer Systems,
Inc. for the services authorized shall
not exceed $213,010.00, and shall contain such other provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following sub-consultant
by Vertex Computer Systems Inc. is
approved:
Sub-consultant

Percentage
Amount

FIT Technologies,
Inc.
62.532%CSB/FBE
$133,200.00
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 168-15.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 562-14, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on

June 9, 2014, the firm of LOGOS
Communications Systems, Inc. dba
Black Box Systems (“Consultant”) is
selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Port Control from a list
of qualified persons or firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control
as the firm of consultants available
to provide professional services necessary to provide technical support
and maintenance of core information technology activities, and other
related services for the Department
of Port Control, for a period of one
year, with one one-year option to
renew.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with LOGOS Communications Systems, Inc. dba Black Box Systems
for the above-mentioned services,
based
upon
its
proposal
dated
November 21, 2014, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide that the compensation to LOGOS Communications
Systems, Inc. dba Black Box Systems for the services authorized
shall not exceed $177,010.00, and
shall contain such other provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 169-15.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Fabrizi Recycling,
Inc. for the public improvement of
repairing and constructing improvements to City right-of-ways, including but not limited to roadways, bus
pads, sidewalks, driveway aprons,
curbs, curb ramps, brick streets, and
appurtenances, bid items 1-5, 57, 59,
98-110, and 116 for the Mayor’s Office
of Capital Projects, received on
March 18, 2015, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 1325-14, passed by
Cleveland City Council on November
17, 2014, upon a unit price basis for
the improvements to be performed
as ordered during the period of
twenty four months starting upon
execution of a contract, at the unit
prices set forth in the bid, which on
the basis of the estimated work to
be
done
would
amount
to
$1,558,995.85,
is
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of the Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into a public improvement by requirement contract for
the improvement.
The
public
improvement
by
requirement contract shall further
provide that the contractor will perform all the City’s requirements for
the work as may be ordered under
delivery orders separately certified
against the public improvement by
requirement contract, whether the
same shall be more or less than the
total estimate of work to be performed under the contract.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Fabrizi Recycling,

683

17
Inc. for the above-mentioned public
improvement is approved:
Tech Ready Mix
Cleveland, Ohio 44104
(CSB) — $996,760.00
TraffTech, Inc.
Cleveland, Ohio 44127
(CSB) — $198,850.00
Sydby Enterprises, LLC
Strongsville, Ohio 44149
(CSB) — $895,680.00
Yeas: None.
Nays: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 170-15.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bids received for the public
improvement of repairing and constructing
improvements
to
City
right-of-ways, including but not limited to roadways, bus pads, sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, curb
ramps, brick streets, and appurtenances, bid items 6-56, 58, 60-97, and
111-115, for the Mayor’s Office of
Capital Projects, received on March
18, 2015, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1325-14, passed by Cleveland City Council on November 17,
2014, are rejected.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 171-15.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinances
No. 1381-14 and Ordinance No. 353-15,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on November 17, 2014 and
April 13, 2015, respectively, the Motz
Group, LLC is selected from a list
of firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Capital Projects as the firm to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of several departments of the City of
perform
the
Cleveland
to
design/build services necessary for
the Dwayne Browder Synthetic Turf
Football Field at Lonnie Burton
Recreation Center for the Department of Capital Projects.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into a written contract
with the Motz Group, LLC, based
upon its proposal dated April 13,
2013, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide
for
the
furnishing
of
design/build services as described
in the proposal for an aggregate fee
not to exceed $930,825.00, and shall
contain such additional provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.

The City Record

18
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control that the employment of
the following sub-consultants by the
Motz Group, LLC is approved:
Sub-Consultant
Percentage

CSB/MBE/FBE
Amount

Stephen Hovancsek &
Associates
19.363%

CSB
$ 15,200.00

SE Blueprint
0.000%

$

Behnke & Associates
0.000%

CSB
$ 55,000.00

SME (2nd Tier)
0.000%
Fabrizi Recycling, Inc.
7.833%
Green Builders Supply,
LLC
1.589%
Cook Paving &
Construction
4.911%
Vizmeg Landscape,
Inc.
0.000%

CSB
770.97

Non-certified
$ 7,500.00
CSB/FBE
$ 66,762.00

CSB/MBE
$ 13,547.00

CSB/MBE
$ 41,856.00

Non-certified
$398,885.00

Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Dumas,
Director
Director/Interim
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 172-15.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bids received for the public improvement of repairing and
constructing improvements to City
right-of-ways, including but not
limited to roadways, bus pads,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs,
curb ramps, brick streets, and
appurtenances, bid items 1-116, for
the Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects, received on March 18, 2015,
under the authority of Ordinance
No. 1325-14, passed by Cleveland
City Council on November 17, 2014,
are rejected.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Dumas,
Director/Interim
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 173-15.
By Directors Cox and Spronz.
Whereas, on October 9, 2014, the
City of Cleveland entered into Contract No. PI2014000000045 with John
G. Johnson Construction Company
for the public improvement of the
Side
Maintenance
Building
East
Phase II for the Departments of
Public Works and Capital Projects,
in
the
aggregate
amount
of
$5,266,310.00; and
Whereas, John G. Johnson Construction Company has requested
the City’s consent to remove and to
add certain firms as subcontractors,
and to modify the participation of

May 13, 2015

certain previously approved subcontractors for the project; and
Whereas,
the
Director
of
the
Office of Equal Opportunity has
determined that John G. Johnson
Construction Company has made a
good faith effort to maintain and
fulfill
its
bid
commitment
to
MBE/FBE/CSB subcontractor participation in the substitution, addition, and modification of subcontractors for the project; now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the approval of the employment of
various subcontractors to John G.
Johnson Construction Company in
City
of
Cleveland
Contract
No.
PI2014000000045
entered
into
on
October 9, 2014, is amended by deleting “North Coast Paving (CSB)”,
“Cook
Paving
(CSB/MBE)”
and
“Brook Park Design (Non Certified)” as subcontractors and revising the participation amounts attributed to certain approved subcontractors to the following
CSB/FBE
Percentage

Sub-Consultant
Amount
Eclipse Co., LLC
$340,089.00

CSB/FBE
6.602%

Down to Earth
$70,000.00

CSB/FBE
1.359%

Frank Novak & Sons
$51,100.00

CSB/FBE
0.992%

De-Ko
$25,005.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Norm King
$257,300.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Clear Span
$71,105.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Miller Plumbing
$147,200.00

Non Certified
0.000%

EinHeight Electric
$512,500.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following additional subcontractors by John G.
Johnson Construction Company for
the above referenced public improvement is approved:
CSB/FBE
Percentage

Sub-Consultant
Amount
21st Century
$1,251,065.00

CSB/FBE
24.29%

Cunningham Paving
$187,000.00

CSB/FBE
3.630%

Somat Engineering
$7,630.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Krusoe Sign Company Non Certified
$750.00
0.000%
Gratton Building
Specialties
$29,406.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Standard Wire and
Steel
$31,500.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Mack Iron Works
$17,056.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Ellet Sign
$7,670.00

Non Certified
0.000%

684

Lorain Glass
$17,895.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Quality Overhead
Doors
$36,768.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Akron Fireproofing
$3,495.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Midland Hardware
$16,900.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Specified Structures
$8,470.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Great Northern Fence Non Certified
$20,340.00
0.000%
Pitts Fire Extinguishers
Non Certified
$1023.00
0.000%
Zelko Building
Systems
$653,800.00

Non Certified
0.000%

LDC, Inc.
$494.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Ground Penetrating
Radar
$7,500.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Terracon Consultants
$25,900.00

Non Certified
0.000%

Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 174-15.
By Directors Rush, Spronz, and
Cox.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 72614, passed September 22, 2014 by the
Council of the City of Cleveland, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, by and at the
direction of the Board of Control, to
sell and transfer various City-owned
properties, referred to in the ordinance as the Land Bank and NonLand Bank Properties, no longer
needed for public use and located
between I-490 and East 55th Street
to Chester Avenue and E. 105th
Street, the Project Boundaries of the
Opportunity Corridor, to the Ohio
Department
of
Transportation
(ODOT), for the Opportunity Corridor Transportation Project, at no
cost; and
Whereas, the Land Bank and NonLand Bank Properties shall be
transferred to ODOT at no cost and
the fair market value of City’s land
interests, as determined by the
Board of Control, shall be applied by
ODOT towards the City’s required
share of the cost of project construction; and
Whereas, as required by Ordinance No. 726-14, the Council President and each affected Councilmember, as appropriate, have given written approval for the sale of each of
the Land Bank and Non-Land Bank
Properties needed for Phase 1 and 2
of the Opportunity Corridor, located
along
E.
105th
Street
between
Chester Avenue and Quebec Avenue;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that

May 13, 2015
under Ordinance No. 726-14, passed
September 22, 2014 by the Cleveland
City Council, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is directed
to sell and transfer various Land
Bank and Non-Land Bank Properties
located
along
E.
105th
Street
between Chester Avenue and Quebec
Avenue within the Project Boundaries and no longer needed for public use, to the Ohio Department of
Transportation for Phase 1 and 2 of
the Opportunity Corridor Project, at
no cost.
Be it further resolved that the fair
market value of the aforementioned
Land Bank and City-owned NonLand Bank Properties is determined
to be $299,447.00, which amount
ODOT shall apply towards the City’s
required share of the project construction cost.
Be it further resolved that the
Directors of the Departments of Public Works Community Development,
and the Office of Capital Projects,
and the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies, as applicable, are
requested to execute and deliver the
official deeds of the City of Cleveland conveying the property, which
documents shall contain such additional terms and conditions as the
Director of Law shall deem necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Smith,
Acting
Director
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 175-15.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 124-12-048 and 124-12-049 located
at 5716 Kinsman Road and 5710
Kinsman Road; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, The Word Church has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcels for church parking; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 5 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and

The City Record
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with The Word Church
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 124-12-048 and
124-12-049 located at 5716 Kinsman
Road
and
5710
Kinsman
Road,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $4,000.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 176-15.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-13-006 located at 3247 West
50th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Betty Dean and Gordon
Dean have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has either approved the
proposed sale or has not disapproved or requested a hold of the
proposed sale within 45 days of notification of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Betty Dean and
Gordon Dean for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 01613-006 located at 3247 West 50th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.

685

19
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 177-15.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 128-01-107, 128-02-045, 128-02-136,
128-02-149, 128-02-174 and 128-02-188
located on Crestwood Avenue, Hulda
Avenue and Shale Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to lease Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas, Cleveland Botanical Garden has proposed to the City to
lease and develop the parcels for
storm water management, public
recreation and greenspace; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has either approved the proposed lease or has not disapproved
or requested a hold of the proposed
lease within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed lessee of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute a lease for a
term of three (3) years, for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland, with
Cleveland Botanical Garden for the
lease and development of Permanent
Parcel Nos. 128-01-107, 128-02-045, 12802-136, 128-02-149, 128-02-174 and 12802-188 located on Crestwood Avenue,
Hulda Avenue and Shale Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the lease of the
parcels shall be a one-time fee of
$3.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the fair market
value of the parcels for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director
Johnson, Director Parrilla, Acting
Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Directors Southerington, Nichols, Fumich
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

The City Record

20
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________

83

May 13, 2015
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $21.52 - $25.45 per Hour.

WR/PERF
Recreation
Instructor II
(Sports)

Open

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).

ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2015
Filing Beginning 5/15/2015

School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.

Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.
74

75

EE

EE

Exam
Type

Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).

Airport
Operations
Agent II

Open

Assistant
Manager/
Application
Development/
Technical
Support
Non-Comp

Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.

76

77

EE

EE

Building
Stationary
Engineer

Voter registration cards.
Open

Chief Legal
Investigator Non-Comp

Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.

78

EE

Chief of
Purification Non-Comp

79

EE

Claims
Examiner

Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

Non-Comp

80

EE

Development
Finance
Analyst II Non-Comp

81

EE

Engineering and
Construction
Inspector
(Engineering &
Construction)
Open

53a

WR/TY Legal Secreatry

82

EE

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 74
AIRPORT OPERATIONS AGENT II
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

Open
SALARY

Supervisor of
Computer
Operations Non-Comp

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance

686

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MAY 21, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, assists in the operational management of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport to
maintain the airport operating certificate. Maintains current knowledge
base of applicable Federal Aviation
Regulations and FAA Advisory circulars. Ensures compliance with applicable regulations. Reviews operations
report of preceding shift, special
instructions, and nature of field conditions. Assists with the dissemination of field condition information.
Operates radio and telephone equipment.
Communicates
with
and
answers questions from public on airport operations and conditions. Helps
to coordinate movement of snow
removal crews, crash and rescue
crews, construction activity, and
vehicular movement activity. Monitors aircraft movement. Communicates with air carriers, FAA ATC, airport, and other government entities
as required. Escorts emergency, construction, and other approved vehicles as required. Makes regular
patrols and physical inspections of
field, airfield, and terminal conditions. Notes and reports safety violations, discrepancies potentially hazardous conditions, as well as operational and maintenance problems in
landing, hangar, ramp, roadways, terminal areas, and other airport properties. Conducts wildlife patrols, performing wildlife hazing and reduction procedures as necessary which
may require the use of a pyrotechnic
weapon and/or shotgun. May be
required to remove debris or dead

May 13, 2015
wildlife from aircraft operating
areas. Responds to and assists with
emergency situations. Monitors security, fire, and equipment monitoring
systems for alarms and makes notifications and reports on conditions as
necessary. Logs incoming transient
aircraft for landing fees. Reviews
daily log entries and completes shift
log, reports, and records at close of
shift. Maintains files. Performs other
job-related duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe work practices. Attends
and participates in operations and
safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of
competence may be determined by
exam.) Wears and properly utilizes
safety equipment in accordance with
Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Aviation, Airport Management, or
related field from an accredited college or university is required. Two
years of full time paid experience as
an airport operations agent is
required. (Substitution: One year of
experience in an Airport Operations
office or airport operations-related
experience may be substituted for
each year of college education lacking. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required. Must be able to
type and possess general computer
skills including Microsoft Office Suite
products. Must successfully complete
a Transportation Security Administration (TSA) fingerprint-based criminal history records check and
employment background check. Must
be able to lift and carry 50 pounds.
Must be willing to work in and out of
doors in all weather conditions in a 24hour operation, including a non-standard work week.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with

The City Record
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 75
ASSTISTANT MANAGER APPLICATIONS DEVELOPMENT/TECH SUPPORT (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $46,224.91 to $137,831.29 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Plans, organizes, and manages the
technical aspects of a major section of
the Data Processing Organization.
This includes application development, database administration, standards, and software support. Exercises considerable latitude in determining objectives and approaches to
assignments. Manages a large section
responsible for the design, development, implementation, and maintenance of management information

687

21
system. Plans, organizes, and directs
the efforts of the staff for all technical aspects of the department. Establishes and maintains status reports
which provide progress and problem
visibility to customers and management. Organizes or modifies organization as required to complete
assigned projects and to ensure optimization of schedules, budgets, and
technical excellence. Maintains close
contact with customer representatives to identify and respond to customer requests. Ensures that potential sources of problems are made
known to the Division Manager.
Assists in staffing department. Helps
coordinate recruiting efforts and
employment offers. Assigns tasks
and appraises subordinates. Recommends new hires, terminations, or
other changes of employee status.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Computers, Information Processing, or
related field from a four year college
or university is required. Three years
of IT experience is required. (Substitution: Two years of relevant experience may substitute for each year of
college education lacking.) Must be
an expert in Microsoft Windows 2000
Server and related servers such as
Exchange, ILS, DNS, WINS, IAS,
Proxy, and various other Microsoft
Server/ Utility Software as well as
Windows 98/NT/200XP client software, Microsoft Office Suites, vision
Project and other utilities. Must be
proficient with network hardware
and configuration such as routers,
switches, and firewalls. Must be proficient with most common Enterprise
software such as Norton Enterprise,
Antivirus, Cisco Works, OpenView,
SnifferPro, LanGuard, etc. Must be
Capable of assembling and configuring servers/workstations and installation of all software. Knowledge of
various operating systems such as
Unix, Linux, and VMSA. Must be able
to lift and carry a minimum of thirty
pounds (Lifting and transporting of
computer and network equipment). A
valid State of Ohio driver’s license is
required. MSCE or CCNA Certifications are preferred but not required.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with

The City Record

22
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

TION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 76
BUILDING
STATIONARY
NEER (OPEN)

ENGI-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20.05 - $27.55 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MAY 21, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A North American Technician Excellence (NATE) Certification in one or more of the following
categories is required: Air Conditioning, Air Distribution, Heat Pump, Gas
Heat, Gas Hydronic, Light Commercial
Refrigeration,
Commercial
Refrigeration. A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. A valid
EPA
Refrigeration
License
is
required. Must be able to work in high
and/or confined spaces. Must be able
to lift and carry 70 pounds.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, maintains boiler
room equipment in a public building.
Maintains and repairs mechanical
and other equipment. Operates power
plant and engine room equipment in a
public building. Performs related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINA-

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 77
CHIEF
LEGAL
(NON-COMP)

INVESTIGATOR

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $23,647.11 to $74,000.47 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO

688

May 13, 2015
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general direction, performs
investigations required for the evaluation and litigation of claims and lawsuits. Researches and records collections. Interviews prospective witnesses and gathers evidence as needed.
Writes reports and correspondence.
Interprets and analyzes reports,
records, and statements. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam). Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School diploma or GED is
required. Three years of experience
with law enforcement procedures for
investigation, record keeping, interviewing witnesses, and evidence
gathering is required. Must have
knowledge of Ohio’s public records
law and demonstrated experience
working with legal professionals.
Law enforcement experience is preferred. Must have excellent verbal
skills. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,

The City Record

May 13, 2015
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 78
CHIEF OF PURIFICATION (NONCOMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $23,647.11 to $95,698.26 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

engineering project designs and specifications. Participates in project
planning meetings. Conducts reviews
and site visits to monitor system
improvements. Provides technical
advice concerning impact of new
drinking water regulations and the
impact on the water system. Oversees
the Compliance Laboratory operations. Responds to consumer complaints related to water quality.
Reviews pending legislation and performs related forecasting and planning activities. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam).
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Civil, Mechanical, or Environmental
Engineering, Fluid Mechanics, Chemistry, or a related field from a fouryear accredited college or university
is required. Six years of full time paid
experience in the field of potable
water is required. Must be able to
demonstrate knowledge of the conventional drinking water treatment
process as well as factors influencing
distribution system and Lake Erie
water quality. Must be knowledgeable of Ohio EPA and USEPA drinking water regulations and the rulemaking process. Must be computer
proficient and knowledgeable about
relational databases. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 79
CLAIMS EXAMINER (NON-COMP)

NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
SALARY
Under direction, oversees, plans, and
implements water quality monitoring
programs, water quality assessments,
and water quality improvement projects. Reviews Division of Water

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $24.02 per Hour.

689

23
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under guidance, works autonomously
to investigate, review, and evaluate
claims brought against the City of
Cleveland for property damage, personal injury, or other loss. Determines the extent of the City’s liability, if any, and the injury or damage
incurred by the claimant. Deals with
the public by phone and in person
about their claims. Processes all legal
and moral claims, with or without
legal representation, against the City.
Prepares necessary correspondence
and settlement agreements to resolve
the particular claim. Schedules moral
claims meetings and prepares agenda
for each meeting. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam).
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Business Administration from an

The City Record

24
accredited college or university is
required. One year of full time paid
recent (within the last 5 years) experience in the liability insurance field
which may include self-insurance situations is required. (Substitution:
Two years of experience may substitute for each year of college education lacking.) Must be computer literate. Must have working knowledge in
property damage, personal and bodily
injury. Knowledge of insurance law,
municipal law, and utility systems is
a plus. A Paralegal degree is preferred.

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION

NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 80
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
LYST II (NON-COMP)

ANA-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $51,043.20 to $93,856.07 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.

Working directly under the administrative direction of the Department of
Economic Development’s Assistant
Director, plans, directs, and controls a
divisional section within the department. Manages projects and programs in the department including
the areas of research, development,
and reporting. Supervises subordinate staff. Provides job training and
instruction. Assigns work, reviews
and
evaluates
completed
work,
employee performance. Recommends
selection, promotion, and discipline.
Reviews and approves employee
leave requests. Serves as the project
lead to evaluate projects for potential
financial incentives. Reviews applications, performs underwriting functions, and prepares presentations to
loan and grant review committees.
Prepares legislation and works with
the Law Department to prepare and
execute contracts. Develops concepts
and writes grant proposals. Secures
commitments from State, Federal,
and other funding sources to provide
services and financial assistance to
program participants and City of
Cleveland businesses. Monitors performances and assists in evaluating
options in the case of loan repayment
problems. Gathers data for periodic
and annual reporting. Assists City
businesses with issues across all City
departments to support the Department of Economic Development as a
“One-Stop” for business concerns and
works with other City departments to
solve problems. Represents the City
at public meetings and conferences.
Works to market the City of Cleveland for the attraction and retention
of businesses. Prepares summaries
and information for the website and
social media for the Department of
Economic Development. Performs
other duties as assigned. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam).
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree as well
as a Master’s Degree in Finance, Law,
Accounting, Public Administration,
Urban Studies, Economic Development, or a closely related field from a
four-year accredited college or university is required. Two years of full
time paid experience in Economic

690

May 13, 2015
Development,
Banking,
Finance,
International Relations, Law, or
closely related field is required. (Substitution: One year of related experience may substitute for each year of
graduate college education lacking
(up to 2 years). Must be able to lift
and carry 30 pounds. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required. The
following are preferred: Strong written and verbal communications, networking, leadership, and interpersonal skills; Experience using GIS systems; Skilled in Microsoft Office
applications including Publisher,
Power Point, Excel, and Word;
Skilled in Adobe and experience with
Adobe Photoshop; Experience in Public Speaking; Experience in writing
for a website.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 81
ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION INSPECTOR – (Engineering &
Construction) (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $19.69 - $21.69 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MAY 28, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed

May 13, 2015
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.

The City Record
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 53A
LEGAL SECRETARY (OPEN)

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, inspects the construction of sewers. Examines paving
construction and maintenance work.
Insures compliance with contract
plans, specifications, and good workmanship, and performs relative duties
as required. Follows all operations
and safety policies and safe work
practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Seven years of full time paid
field experience in inspecting progressively larger civil engineering
projects (Five years on projects of at
least $2 million)is required (Substitution: A Construction Technician certification may substitute for two years
of experience lacking). A valid State
of Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an OPEN examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 to $50,700.42 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN/TYPING EXAMINATION Applicants will be notified
of the time, date, and place of the
exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: WRITTEN TEST = 60% OF
FINAL GRADE. TYPING TEST =
40% OF FINAL GRADE. THE WRITTEN TEST WILL BE ADMINISTERED FIRST. CANDIDATES MUST
RECEIVE A PASSING GRADE ON
THE WRITTEN TEST IN ORDER TO
BE ABLE TO TAKE THE TYPING
TEST WHERE A MINIMUM OF 55
WPM (Gross words per minute minus
errors) IS REQUIRED IN ORDER TO
HAVE THEIR EXAMS GRADED.
FAILURE TO OBTAIN 55 WPM ON
THE TYPING PORTION OF THE
EXAM WILL RESULT IN AN AUTOMATIC SCORE OF ZERO. (FAILURE)
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE:
THOSE
PERSONS
WHO
HAVE ALREADY FILED FOR THIS
EXAM BUT HAVE NOT YET TAKEN
IT DO NOT NEED TO FILE AGAIN.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, assists in the
preparation of legal documents and
other papers. Performs general clerical duties. Takes and transcribes
legal dictation as required. Tracks
legislation as necessary. Manages
appointments and travel arrangements. Coordinates the scheduling of

691

25
meetings, depositions, conferences,
and court appearances. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. An Associate’s Degree from
an accredited college or University is
required. Two years of full time paid
experience as a Legal Secretary is
required. (Substitution:
One year of full time paid experience
may substitute for each year of college education lacking. A certificate
in Legal Studies or closely related
field may substitute for the degree.)
Must be able to type at least 55 words
per minute.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 82
SUPERVISOR
OF
COMPUTER
OPERATIONS (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $30,214.95 to $98,444.95 per Year.

The City Record

26
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under direction, supervises the performance of computer system operations according to output requirements. Analyzes equipment problems
and takes corrective action as needed.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High school diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Computer Science or related field
from an accredited college, university, or vocational school is required.
Eight years of relevant full time paid
experience in IT/IS, plus a minimum
of five years in a supervisory or managerial position is required. SUBSTITUTION: Two years of experience
may substitute for each year of college education lacking. Must have
five years’ experience supporting
users in a Midrange IBM and/or NT

May 13, 2015

Server Environment. Must have
knowledge and understanding of
Wide Area Networks, IBM Mainframes, AS/400NT, Novel, and various
other Client Server or Midrange Systems. Must have Information and support experience. Must be able to lift
and carry thirty pounds. A Valid Ohio
Driver’s License is required for this
position.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 83
RECREATION
Sports (OPEN)

INSTRUCTOR

II

-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $14.76 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015 UNTIL 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MAY 21, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: Written & Performance tests:
EACH TEST WILL BE WORTH 50%
OF THE EXAM. Applicants will be
notified of the time, date, and place of
the exams by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: Upon
score, those

receiving a passing
persons who have

692

received Certificates of Achievement
from the Division of Recreation will
receive 2 additional points per certificate with a maximum of 4 points (or
two certificates) allowed.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, has charge of the
organization and direction of recreational activities of a playground or
recreation center. Performs related
duties as required. TYPICAL TASKS:
Coordinates, organizes, and directs
free play and planned group activities at a playground or recreation center. Organizes leisure time activities
and teaches skills in games, such as
playground ball, volleyball, tennis,
and other individual and team games.
Organizes and conducts field trips,
sports days and other special events
on the playgrounds or in the recreations center that coordinate with the
city-wide recreation program. Assists
in marking and laying out play fields
for various games and events. Supervises the distribution, setting up, use,
collection, storing, and maintaining
of equipment and apparatus. Controls
and maintains order within the playground or recreation center. Discourages gambling, profanity, and rowdiness on the playground or in the recreation center. Encourages participation in leisure time activities and
good sportsmanship in all activities.
Conducts or assists instructors in
handicraft, dancing, storytelling, dramatics, music, nature studies and
other special leisure time activities.
Attends staff meetings. Administers
first aid. Consults with supervisors or
assistant and co-workers concerning
the work of the playground of recreation center. Keeps records. Makes
routine and special reports. Supervises play-leaders or other assistants.
Performs other duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Recreation, Physical Education, or a
closely related field from a four year
accredited college or university is
preferred.  A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required.  Two years
of experience in planning, developing, recruiting, implementing, and
instructing youth/adults in various
sports and other related programs is
required (volunteer experience will
be considered). 
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in any Recreation Instructor position or as Student Aides or
Play Directors with the Division of

The City Record

May 13, 2015
Recreation in the City of Cleveland
are exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking
an examination on the basis of age,
education or failure to meet other
minimum entrance requirements, the
fee paid by such applicant shall be
refunded to such applicant upon the
applicant’s request in writing made
within ten (10) days after the date of
examination. Any applicant who can
provide proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt
from the filing fee. A copy of such
proof must be included with the application.
NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, and resumes must be
presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
May 13, 2015.

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, JUNE 1, 2015
9:30 A.M.

Calendar No. 15-81: 3118 Franklin
Boulevard, A (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “A” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and 960
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 10 feet are
proposed.
3. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 21 feet 5 inches are proposed.
4.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 0 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 0 feet are proposed.
6. Section 357.05(b) (1) which
states that rear third of the corner
lot in a residence district requires a
10 foot setback and 2 feet 6 inches
are proposed.
7. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
8. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 504 square feet are
allowed and 1,400 square feet are
proposed.

27

9. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “A”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)

8. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “C”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)

Calendar No. 15-82: 3116 Franklin
Boulevard, B (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “B” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and 948
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 10 feet and
1 inch are proposed.
3. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 19 feet 8 inches are proposed.
4.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 0 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 0 feet are proposed.
6. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
7. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 474 square feet are
allowed and 1,383 square feet are
proposed.
8. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “B”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)

Calendar No. 15-84: 3112 Franklin
Boulevard, D (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “D” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and 948
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 10 feet and
1 inch are proposed.
3. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 19 feet 8 inches are proposed.
4.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 0 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 0 feet are proposed.
6. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
7. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 474 square feet are
allowed and 1,383 square feet are
proposed.
8. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “D”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)

Calendar No. 15-83: 3114 Franklin
Boulevard, C (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “B” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and 948
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 10 feet and
1 inch are proposed.
3. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 19 feet 8 inches are proposed.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
4.
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 0 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 0 feet are proposed.
6. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
7. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 474 square feet are
allowed and 1,383 square feet are
proposed.

693

Calendar No. 15-85: 3110 Franklin
Boulevard, E (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “D” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and 948
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 10 feet and
1 inch are proposed.
3. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 19 feet 8 inches are proposed.
4.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 0 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 0 feet are proposed.
6. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
7. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 474 square feet are

28
allowed and 1,383 square feet are
proposed.
8. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “E”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-86: 3108 Franklin
Boulevard, F (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “F” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and 948
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 10 feet and
1 inch are proposed.
3. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 19 feet 8 inches are proposed.
4.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 0 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 0 feet are proposed.
6. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
7. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 474 square feet are
allowed and 1,383 square feet are
proposed.
8. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “F”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-87: 3106 Franklin
Boulevard, G (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “G” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and
1,018 square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 10 feet and
1 inch are proposed.
3. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 22 feet 5 inches are proposed.
4.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 0 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
which
359.09(b)(2)
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 0 feet are proposed.
6. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
7. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot

The City Record
area in this case 509 square feet are
allowed and 1,513 square feet are
proposed. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-88: 3104 Franklin
Boulevard, H (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “H” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and
1,903 square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 10 feet are
proposed.
3. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 23 feet 1 inch are proposed.
4.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 0 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 5 feet are proposed.
6. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
7. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 951 square feet are
allowed and 2,816 square feet are
proposed.
8. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “H”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-89: 1551 West 32nd
Street, I (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “I” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and
1,050 square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 8 feet are
proposed.
3. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the front yard setback must be
equal to 15% of the lot depth or in
this case 6 feet 3 inches and 3 feet
are proposed.
4. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 25 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 3 feet are proposed.
6.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 3 feet are proposed.
7. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
8. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 525 square feet are

694

May 13, 2015
allowed and 1,601 square feet are
proposed.
9. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “I”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-90: 1549 West 32nd
Street, J (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “J” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and
1,050 square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 8 feet are
proposed.
3. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the front yard setback must be
equal to 15% of the lot depth or in
this case 6 feet 3 inches and 3 feet
are proposed.
4. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 25 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 3 feet are proposed.
6.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 5 feet are proposed.
7. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
8. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 616 square feet are
allowed and 1,485 square feet are
proposed.
9. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “J”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-91: 1547 West 32nd
Street, K (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “K” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and 990
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 8 feet are
proposed.
3. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the front yard setback must be
equal to 15% of the lot depth or in
this case 6 feet 6 inches and 3 feet
are proposed.
4. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 22.25 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 3 feet are proposed.
6.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side

May 13, 2015
yard is 10 feet and 0 feet are proposed.
7. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
8. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 495 square feet are
allowed and 1,350 square feet are
proposed.
9. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “K”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-92: 1545 West 32nd
Street, L (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “L” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and
1,050 square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 8 feet are
proposed.
3. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the front yard setback must be
equal to 15% of the lot depth or in
this case 6 feet 3 inches and 3 feet
are proposed.
4. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 25 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 3 feet are proposed.
6.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 0 feet are proposed.
7. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
8. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 616 square feet are
allowed and 1,485 square feet are
proposed.
9. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “L”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-93: 1543 West 32nd
Street, M (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “M” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and 737
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 8 feet are
proposed.
3. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the front yard setback must be
equal to 15% of the lot depth or in
this case 6 feet 6 inches and 3 feet
are proposed.

The City Record
4. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 16 feet 8 inches feet are
proposed.
5.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 3 feet are proposed.
6.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 0 feet are proposed.
7. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
8. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 368.5 square feet
are allowed and 1,106 square feet
are proposed.
9. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “M”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-94: 1541 West 32nd
Street, N (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “N” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house
allowed is 4,800 square feet and 820
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 5 feet are
proposed.
3. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the front yard setback must be
equal to 15% of the lot depth or the
average setback of existing building which in this case is 9 feet inches and 5 feet are proposed.
4. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 20 feet are proposed.
5.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 0 feet are proposed.
6.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 0 feet are proposed.
7. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
8. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 410 square feet are
allowed and 1,320 square feet are
proposed.
9. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “N”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-95: 1539 West 32nd
Street, O (Ward 3)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proposes to construct a fee simple townhouse known as townhouse “O” in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the Minimum lot area per house

695

29
allowed is 4,800 square feet and
1,456 square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.04 which states that
the minimum street frontage yard
required is 25 feet and 5 feet are
proposed.
3. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the front yard setback must be
equal to 15% of the lot depth or the
average setback of existing building which in this case is 9 feet inches and 5 feet and 1 inch are proposed.
4. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot width allowed is 50
feet and 35 feet 5 inches are proposed.
which
5.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
states that 15% of average lot depth
is required for the rear yard or 20
feet and 3 feet are proposed.
6.
Section
359.09(b)(2)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 10 feet and 3 feet 1 inch are
proposed.
7. Section 353.02 which states the
Height District 1 permits a maximum height of 35 feet and 44 feet 6
inches are proposed.
8. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed 1/2 the lot
area in this case 728 square feet are
allowed and 1,792 square feet are
proposed.
9. Section 349.04(a) which states
the one parking space is required
for each dwelling unit and no parking space is proposed for the “O”
dwelling unit. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-96: 1553 West 32nd
Street, P (Ward 3)
(Access driveway)
Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. proconstruct
a
common
poses
to
drive/access driveway for a 15 unit
townhouse development on Franklin
Boulevard and West 32nd Street
numbered “A” through “O” in a B1
Two Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 349.07(a) which states
that accessory off-street driveways
and maneuvering areas shall be
properly graded for drainage so that
all water is drained within the lot
providing such area surfaced with
concrete, asphaltic concrete, asphalt
or other similar surfacing materials
approved by the Director of Building and Housing, maintained in
good condition and free of debris
and trash.
2. Section 337.03 which states that
the sole use of property located in
a Two Family Residential District
as and access driveway is not permitted. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-101: 8206 Wade Park
Avenue (Ward 7)
Phyllis J. Wilson, owner, appeals
to establish uses as a “Type A” Daycare in a D2 Multi-Family Residential District. The owner appeals for
relief Section 337.03 of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances which states
that daycare and its uses shall not
be less than 15 feet from any adjoining premises in a residence district.
(Filed May 1, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-102: 14317 Gramatan
Avenue (Ward 17)
Diana Galdamez, owner, proposes
to erect an 8' x 12' open wolmanized deck in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner appeals

The City Record

30
for relief from the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be less
than 10 feet from a dwelling on an
adjacent lot and 2 feet are proposed.
2.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the minimum required
interior side yard is 3 feet and 2 feet
are proposed. Total width of side
yards on same premises shall not be
less than 10 feet and 4 feet are proposed. (Filed May 1, 2015)
POSTPONED FROM MARCH 30, 2015
Calendar No. 15-38: 9915 St. Clair
Avenue (Ward 10)
Inter City Investors Inc., owner,
proposes to alter retail stores, new
driveway and parking lot behind
building and approximately 250 linear feet of six foot high chain link
fence with barbed wire in a C2
Local Retail Business. The owner
appeals for relief from the following
sections of the Codified Ordinances:
1.
Section
349.04(f)(g)
which
states that parking is required at
the rate of one space per 500 square
feet. 16 parking spaces are required,
six parking spaces are provided.
2. Section 343.18(c) which states
that driveways in retail business
districts must be 15 feet away from
side property line.
3. Section 352.08 through 352.12
which states that a six foot wide
landscaped transition strip providing 50% year round opacity is
required at rear of property where
abutting Multi-Family Residential
District.
4. Section 358.05(b) which states
that barbed wire fence is not permitted in a Local Retail Business
District.
5. Note: proposed construction of
new parking lot on adjacent separately owned parcel requires a separate permit application. (Filed February 20, 2015)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant to allow for
time for the land bank lot to transfer.
POSTPONED FROM APRIL 20, 2015
Calendar No. 15-54: 6202 Saint Clair
Avenue (Ward 7)
St. Martin de Porres High School,
owner, proposes to erect a 3 story,
66,708 square foot ‘L’ shaped addition in a C1 Local Retail Business
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
Section 353.01 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
the
maximum
building
height
allowed is 35 feet and 45 feet 8 inches are proposed. (Filed March 10,
2015 - testimony taken)
First postponement made at the
request of the Councilman to allow
for
more
time
for
community
engagement.
POSTPONED FROM MAY 4, 2015
Calendar No. 15-62: 2187 Murray Hill
Road (Ward 6)
Murray Hill Partners LLC, owner,
and Zac Ponsky, tenant, propose to
change use from restaurant to tattoo shop and art studio in a C1
Local Retail Business District. The
owner appeals for relief from the

May 13, 2015

strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 343.01 which states that
tattoo shop and art studio are not
permitted in the Local Retail Business District.
2. Section 343.11 which states that
a tattoo shop and art studio are first
permitted in a General Retail Business District.
3. Section 349.04(f) which states
that 7 off street parking spaces are
required and none are provided.
4. Section 349.07(a) & (b) which
state that accessory off-street parking spaces, driveways and maneuvering areas shall be surface with
concrete, asphalt or similar surfacing material and properly graded
for drainage so that all water is
drained within the lot and parking
spaces
provided
with
wheel
or
bumper guards.
5.
Section
347.12(b)(1)
which
states that no tattoo shop shall be
established within 1,000 feet of a
residential district or day care,
school, public library, church, playground.
6.
Section
347.12(b)(2)
which
states that no tattoo shop shall be
established within 1,000 feet of
another such use. (Filed March 24,
2015)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant to allow for
more time for community engagement.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 11, 2015
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, May 11,
2015 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 15-23: 3179 West 25th
Street
Woodland Inc. (aka Ali Farai)
proposes to establish use of 16,698
square foot building as a banquet/assembly hall in a C2 Local
Retail
Business
District
and
a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District
(PRO).
Calendar No. 15-68: 3275 West 117th
Street
Bruce Zavotka, owner, and Mike
Hohlakis,
prospective
purchaser,
propose to add Motor Vehicle Sales
Facility to existing, nonconforming
Motor Vehicle Service Garage in a
C1 Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 15-69: 1965 East 6th
Street
Corning Place Ohio LLC. owner,
proposes to change use of a twelve
story building to 123 apartment
units and retail space in an E6 General Retail Business District and the
Central Business District.
Calendar No. 15-71: 2562 West 18th
Place
Adam Sywank, owner, proposes to
erect a 24' x 57' and 2 story frame

696

and masonry single family residence
flex room and attached 3 car garage
addition in a C1 Multi-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 15-79: 1425 Rockwell
Avenue
Cleveland Tech Holdings, LLC.,
owner, proposes to erect an 8 foot
tall fence in an E3 Semi-Industry
District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

None
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

None.
The following
PONED:

case

was

POST-

Calendar No. 15-70: 2151 Tuck’s
Track
Clifton and Heather Barber. Postponed to June 15, 2015.
The following cases were heard
and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals on Monday, May 4, 2015
and the decisions were adopted and
approved on Monday, May 11, 2015.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-238: 1862 East 123rd
Street aka 1885 Coltman
East 123 St. Properties LTD.,
owner, proposes to erect two new
buildings to house 204
residential
units, with 258 accessory off-street
parking spaces in a B2 Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 15-64: 11125 Magnolia
Drive
Cleveland Music School Settlement, owner, proposes to install a
30' x 40' temporary tent for various
events that will occur from April 9,
2015 to October 9, 2015.
Calendar No. 15-66: 1112 Kenilworth
Avenue
Kathleen Crowther, owner, proposes to change use to tattooing and
an art gallery in a C1 General
Retail Business District.
The
following
case
was
AFFIRMED
(variance
rights
extended an additional 6 months):
Calendar No. 14-173: 15201 Chatfield
Avenue
M & H Investments – affirmed to
November 10, 2015.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

May 13, 2015
PUBLIC NOTICE
– TAXICABS–
NOTICE OF RATES OF FARE
ADJUSTMENT DUE TO COST OF
GASOLINE

Dedrick C. Stephens, Commissioner
Division of Assessments and
Licenses
As of the first Moanday of May,
2015, and one month prior thereto,
the price per gallon for regular
unleaded gasoline for the ClevelandLorain-Elyria Metro Area as published by the Automobile Association of America’s State-by-State Fuel
Price Average Report is less than
$3.00 per gallon.
Therefore, pursuant to CO §443.261(b), the increase
of $1.00 to the rates of fare set forth
in CO §443.26 authorized and published hereto on June 1, 2011, is
hereby repealed and shall take
effect thirty (30) days from the publication of this notice. Pursuant to
CO §443.261(c), each change in the
fare amount shall be applied to the
meter.
A representative of the
Bureau of Weights and Measure
must remove the current security
seal affixed to each taxicab meter
prior to the fare being changed on
the meter.
Dedrick C. Stephens
Commissioner
Division of Assessments and
Licenses

May 6, 2015, May 13, 2015, May 20,
2015, May 27, 2015 and June 3, 2015

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On Development, Planning
and Sustainability
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Tuesday, May 26, 2015
9:30 a.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217,
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on Tuesday, May 26, 2015, at 9:30 a.m., to
consider the following ordinances
now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 1434-13.
By Council Members Cummins and
Zone.
An
ordinance
establishing
a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District
on the north and south sides of
Clark Avenue between W. 56th
Street and W. 41st Street as shown
on the attached map (Map Change
No. 2457).
Ord. No. 998-14.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Area Districts of parcels on the
south side of Lake Avenue west of
Clifton Boulevard from an ‘A’ Area
District and a One Family Residential District to an RA2 Residential
Attached Townhouse District (Map
Change No. 2498).

The City Record
Ord. No. 398-15.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use District of parcels south of Lake Ave and
north of Franklin Ave between W.
75th Street and W. 85th Street to a
Local Retail, Townhouse or TwoFamily District, Changing the Area
District to K and establishing an
Urban Form Overlay District as identified on the attached map (Map
Change No. 2507).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Anthony Brancatelli, Chair
Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability
May 13, 2015 and May 20, 2015

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
NO BIDS

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 533-15.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of liquor license of a
D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
7513 St. Clair Avenue.

697

31
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of liquor license of a D2, D2X,
D3 and D3A Liquor Permit from
Triple
Threat,
Inc.,
DBA
Club
Odyssey, 6735 St. Clair Avenue, 1st
floor, S/Portion, Cleveland, Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
90530790001 to Triple Threat, Inc.,
DBA Club Odyssey, 7513 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 90530790002; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from Triple
Threat, Inc., DBA Club Odyssey, 6735
St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor, S/Portion,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 90530790001 to Triple Threat,
Inc., DBA Club Odyssey, 7513 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 90530790002; and
requests the Superintendent of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

32
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Res. No. 534-15.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to 10929 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Swift Foods, Inc., DBA
Swift Food Mart, 10929 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number 8738908 to OW10929,
LLC, DBA Swift Food Mart, 10929 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 66094440005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from
Swift Foods, Inc., DBA Swift Food
Mart, 10929 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number
8738908 to OW10929, LLC, DBA Swift
Food Mart, 10929 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent
Number 66094440005; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Res. No. 535-15.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 3700
Superior Avenue, #E.
Whereas, Council has been notified by of an the Division of Liquor
Control application for a New C2
Liquor Permit at Nak Won Oriental
Food, Inc., DBA Kims Oriental Food,
3700 Superior Avenue, #E, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
9751107; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Nak Won Oriental
Food, Inc., DBA Kims Oriental Food,
3700 Superior Avenue, #E, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
9751107; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a

698

May 13, 2015
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Res. No. 536-15.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 1417-1423
East 21st Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Hayes Development Group, LLC, DBA Mardi Gras,
1417-1423 East 21st Street, Cleveland,
Number
Permanent
Ohio
44114,
3693706 to Zon Investments, LLC,
1417-1423 East 21st Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
9957550; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from Hayes Development Group,
LLC, DBA Mardi Gras, 1417-1423 East
21st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 3693706 to Zon Investments, LLC, 1417-1423 East 21st Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent

May 13, 2015
Number 9957550; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Res. No. 542-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit to 75
Public Square, Suite B-100.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit from Underground Entertainment, Inc., DBA
Underground,
75
Public
Square,
Suite B-100, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permanent Number 9148958 to Public Square Pizza, LLC, DBA Public
Square, Suite B-100, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 7107927;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6
Liquor Permit from Underground
Entertainment, Inc., DBA Underground, 75 Public Square, Suite B-100,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 9148958 to Public Square
Pizza, LLC, DBA Public Square, Suite
B-100, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 7107927; and requests
the Superintendent of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Res. No. 543-15.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor
Permit at 6718 St. Clair Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 361-15,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at PZB,
LLC, DBA Prijatels Pharmacy, 6718
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 7128579 by
Resolution No. 361-15 adopted by the
Council on March 30, 2015; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at PZB, LLC, DBA
Prijatels Pharmacy, 6718 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 7128579, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 361-15, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

699

33
Ord. No. 20-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to enact new
Section 131.37; and to amend Section
131.35, amended by Ordinance No. 45914, passed June 9, 2014, relating to
rental of League Park Baseball Field
and Visitors Center.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 131.37 to read as follows:
Section 131.37 Rental of League
Park Baseball Field and League Park
Visitors Center; Fee
(a) The Director of Public Works,
or his or her designee, may rent the
League Park Baseball Field or the
Visitors Center, collectively known as
the League Park Complex, when
available, as long as a permit is
secured under Section 131.07 and the
fees specified in this section are paid.
Rentals secured under this section
shall be for a minimum base rental
period of four hours and include setup, event, dismantle, exit of the organizers and their participants and
guests, and general clean-up of the
rented area.
(b) The Director, or his or her
designee, shall assess and collect the
following fees and charges for the
rental of the following:
(1) League Park Baseball Field
rental:
A. Not-For-Profit rental:
1. $300.00 for the base rental period
of four hours
2. $37.50 for each half hour the event
extends beyond the four-hour base
rental period, and any remaining minutes past any half-hour increment
shall be prorated using the rate of
$37.50 per half hour
B. For-Profit rental:
1. $600.00 for the base rental period
of four hours
2. $75.00 for each half hour the event
extends beyond the four-hour base
rental period, and any remaining minutes past any half-hour increment
shall be prorated using the rate of
$75.00 per half hour
(2) League Park Visitors Center
rental:
A. Not-For-Profit rental:
1. $340.00 for the base rental period
of four hours
2. $42.50 for each half hour the event
extends beyond the base rental period
of four hours, and any remaining minutes past a half-hour increment shall
be prorated at the rate of $42.50 per
half hour
B. For-Profit rental:
1. $400.00 for the base rental period
of four hours
2. $50.00 for each half hour the event
extends beyond the base rental period
of four hours, and any remaining minutes past a half-hour increment shall
be prorated at the rate of $50.00 per
half hour
(c) The party renting either portion
of the League Park Complex is
responsible for general clean-up of
the area.

34
(d) Rentals are to conclude 30 minutes before dusk.
(e) All fees are due and payable
prior to the issuance of a permit.
(f) In cases where off-duty commissioned officers or private security services are determined to be necessary
by the Director, or his or her designee,
it is the responsibility of the party
renting either portion of the League
Park Complex to provide the services,
using a security service approved by
the Director, or his or her designee.
(g) Any party renting either portion of the League Park Complex is
responsible for damages incurred during the rental period and will be
required to provide one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) liability and property damage insurance and include
the City of Cleveland as an additional
insured.
(h) Any party renting either portion of the League Park Complex will
be required to provide emergency
medical personnel for any athletic
competition or other event as determined to be necessary by the Director,
or his or her designee.
(i) All proceeds from gate collections will go to the party renting the
facility.
(j) All concessions will be operated
by the City of Cleveland or its designated vendor.
(k) The Director shall deposit the
fees and charges collected for the
rental of either portion of the League
Park Complex into the fund or funds
designated to pay the costs of the general operation of the Complex, the
equipment and maintenance costs
associated with maintaining the Complex, and for insert improvements to
the Complex and for City events held
at the Complex. The funds collected
may be used for and are appropriated
for these purposes.
(l) After securing the necessary
permit under Section 131.07 of these
Codified Ordinances, the Director, or
his or her designee, may allow the
Cleveland Metropolitan School District to rent the baseball field for
games or practices, without being
assessed the fees and charges specified in division (b) of this section.
Section 2. That Section 131.35 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 459-14, passed June 9, 2014, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 131.35 Rental of Athletic
Complexes; Fee
(a) The Director of Public Works,
or his or her designee, may rent the
Collinwood Athletic Complex, the
Morgana Athletic Complex, and any
other City of Cleveland athletic complexes, when available, as long as a
permit is secured under Section 131.07
and the fees specified in this section
are paid. This section shall not apply
to the rental of the League Park Complex which is subject to the provisions of Section 131.37.
(b) The Director, or his or her
designee, shall assess and collect the
following fees and charges for the
rental of athletic complexes:
(1) Athletic complex base rental:
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
A. Base rental of the complex is
based on a six (6) hour period.
B. The six (6) hour base rental period includes set up, event, dismantle,
and the exit of the organizers and
their participants and guests, and
general clean-up.

The City Record
C. Each additional hour or fraction
thereof exceeding the six (6) hour
base rental will cost an additional
two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
hour.
D. During the six (6) hour base
rental, if lights are required during
any portion of the sporting or athletic
event, an additional one hundred dollars ($100.00) per hour or fraction
thereof will be charged at the time
the permit is issued. The City will bill
for any additional lighting costs at
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
per hour or fraction thereof.
E. Party renting the complex is
responsible for general clean-up of
the area.
(2) All fees are due and payable
prior to the issuance of a permit.
(3) Rentals not requiring lights are
to conclude thirty (30) minutes prior
to dusk.
(4) Rentals requiring lights must
conclude no later than 11:00 p.m.
(c) In cases where private security
services are determined to be necessary by the Director, or his or her
designee, it is the responsibility of the
party renting the complex to provide
the services, using a security service
approved by the Director, or his or her
designee.
(d) Any party renting the complex
is responsible for damages incurred
during rental period and will be
required to provide one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) liability and property
damage
insurance
which
includes the City of Cleveland as an
additional insured.
(e) Any party renting the complex
will be required to provide emergency
medical personnel for any athletic
competition.
(f) All proceeds from gate collections will go to the party renting the
facility.
(g) All concessions will be operated
by the City of Cleveland or its designated vendor.
(h) The Director shall deposit the
fees and charges collected for the
rental of the complex into the fund or
funds designated to pay the costs of
the general operation of the complex,
the equipment and maintenance costs
associated with maintaining the complex, and for improvements to the
complex. The funds collected may be
used for and are appropriated for
these purposes.
(i) After securing the necessary
permit under Section 131.07 of these
Codified Ordinances, the Director, or
his or her designee, may allow the
Cleveland Muny Football League and
the Cleveland Metropolitan School
District to rent athletic complexes for
games, scrimmages, or practices,
without being assessed the fees and
charges specified in division (b) of
this section.
Section 3. That Section 131.35 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 459-14, passed June 9, 2014, is
repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

700

May 13, 2015
Ord. No. 379-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission to enter into an amendment to Contract No. 55936, as amended, with Omni Media Cleveland, Inc.
to change the terms of the agreement.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1143-99,
passed on April 12, 1999, authorized
the Mayor to enter into an Agreement
for the design, construction, installation and maintenance of a network of
kiosks providing directional and
other information to be located
throughout the City; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 6-04,
passed April 4, 2005, this Council
authorized an amendment to the contract to change certain terms and conditions of the agreement; and
Whereas, additional changes are
necessary regarding the display on
some or all of the kiosks, which will
be at the direction by the City, and
approved by the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to enter to an
amendment to Contract No. 55936, as
amended, with Omni Media Cleveland, Inc., regarding the removal and
non-replacement of maps from some
or all of the kiosks and replacement
of the maps with informational, directional, messaging, and advertising
copy, as approved and directed by the
City. All other terms and conditions of
Contract No. 55936, as amended, shall
remain the same.
Section 2. That the contract amendment shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Ord. No. 435-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant and HOME funds for administrative expenses of the Department of
Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
received Community Development
Block Grant, Year 41 funds from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $4,779,630 from Fund No. 14
SF 041 and HOME funds in the
amount of $336,693 from Fund No. 19
SF 680 are appropriated for the administrative expenses of the Department

The City Record

May 13, 2015
of Community Development under the
following schedule:
Personnel
Other

$4,654,113
462,210

Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
expend funds and enter into contracts
for reimbursement of non-profit subrecipients for the cost of audit and
other professional services.
Section 3. That the costs of the contracts authorized in this ordinance
shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SF 041
and Fund No. 19 SF 690.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Ord. No. 436-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into or amend contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations and
private for profit entities; to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City of
Cleveland departments to implement
the City’s community development
programs; and to expend funds for the
operation of programs administered
by the Department of Community
Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
received a Community Development
Block Grant (“CDBG”), Year 41 from
the United States Government; and
Whereas, the Council of the City of
Cleveland has approved the Year 41
Community
Development
Block
Grant Plan which committed funds to
Neighborhood Development Activities (“NDA”), which are CDBG eligible activities proposed by the various
Council members; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated in Section 4
below, is authorized to enter into or
amend contracts with various social
service agencies, community development or local development corporations, non-profit corporations, private
for-profit entities, State of Ohio, Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Authority, Cleveland Municipal School District, Regional Transit
Authority, Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer
District,
Cleveland
Metroparks, and such other governmental entities as defined under the
Ohio Revised Code to implement
activities and programs that are eligible under the Community Development Block Grant CDBG Program and
are consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.

Section 2. That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated in Section 4
below, is authorized to enter into or
amend memorandums of understanding with various City departments to
implement activities and programs
that are eligible under the CDBG Program and are consistent with the
City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 3. That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated in Section 4
below, is authorized to expend NDA
funds for any CDBG eligible Programs administered by the Department of Community Development
including entering into contract with
rehabilitation service providers, tenants, homeowners, and entities providing services necessary to process
loans and grants to implement the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs, Paint Refund Program and
other programs administered by the
Department of Community Development.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into or amending those contracts or
memorandums of understanding, or
expending any funds, the Director of
Community
Development
shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line item
is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for such activity or program does not exceed the
amount allocated for the Council
member’s ward pursuant to the relevant Community Development Block
Grant plan.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, memorandums of understanding and expenditures for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development
shall not exceed $7,430,000.00 and any
prior years NDA balances and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 14 SF 039, 14 SF
040 and 14 SF 041.
Section 6. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into or
amend contracts with the entities
administering the NDA program that
generated program income in an
amount not to exceed that generated
program income and to expend funds
for the programs administered by the
Department of Community Development that generated program income
in an amount not to exceed that generated program income all to be paid
from the revolving fund in Fund 14.
Section 7. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes naming the City of Cleveland as payee,
and mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed to
evidence and secure repayment of
loans made under this program.
Section 8. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan administered by the City,
and to charge and accept fees and to
expend such fees to cover costs
incurred in the preparation of loan
documents, closing, and servicing
costs. Such fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 14.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the

701

35
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Ord. No. 488-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for improving the North
and South Marginal Roads from East
9th Street to East 55th Street; to apply
for and accept any gifts or grants
from any public or private entity;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repairing and resurfacing the North Marginal Road and South Marginal Road
pavement from East 9th Street to East
55th Street, PID No. 100096 (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $1,143,600, but the estimated amount is to be adjusted in order
that the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements

36
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity, including but not limited to
NOACA; and that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 10. That, when appropriate,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized, the Director of Capital
Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with the railroads, Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority, the Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District and other
entities to obtain services or to
acquire property rights such as easements and licenses, necessary to construct the improvements described in
this ordinance.
Section 11. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
accept cash contributions from public
or private entities, for infrastructure
restoration costs associated with

The City Record
relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for
the improvement.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the improvement.
Section 13. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 14. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563, and any all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 0103, RL
2015-76.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Ord. No. 489-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to employ
one or more professional consultants
to provide administration of Family
and Medical Leave Act benefits for
City employees, for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide administration of Family and
Medical Leave Act benefits for City
employees, for a period of one year,
with a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Finance from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Finance for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract
or contracts authorized shall be paid
from any and all funds approved by
the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure

702

May 13, 2015
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Ord. No. 490-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an amendment to Contract No. RC
2010-135 with Meritech, Inc. to continue for two-years the rental of Group I,
II, and III copiers and services for the
various divisions of City government.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 32510, passed April 12, 2010, this Council
authorized the procurement of the
City’s requirements for the rental of
Group I, II, and III copiers and services for the various divisions of City
government for four years with one
option to renew for an additional
year; and
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 290-10, adopted July 21,
2010, the City, through the Director of
Finance, entered into Contract No. RC
2010-135 with Meritech, Inc. for the
rental of the above-mentioned copiers
and services; and
Whereas, the City desires to continue the rental of the copiers and services for two additional consecutive
years starting the day after expiration of Contract No. RC 2010-135, to
enable the City to realize substantial
savings over the cost of renting new
machines and services; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. RC 2010135 with Meritech, Inc. for rental of
Group I, II, and III copiers and services for the various divisions of City
government to continue the rental of
the copiers and the provision of services for two additional years starting the day after expiration of Contract No. RC 2010-135. The cost of the
amendment shall be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts
and the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of any purchase or
procurement under the contract, each
of which purchases or procurements
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the
Director of Finance. (RQN 1508, RL
2015-19).
Section 2. That the amendment
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall include
such additional terms as the Director
of Law considers necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

May 13, 2015

The City Record

37

Ord. No. 491-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend various sections of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, as amended
by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 27, 28, 31, and 49 of Ordinance No. 323-15,
passed March 30, 2015, are amended to read as follows:
Section 7. Service Employees International Union, Local 1199, AFL-CIO. That salaries and compensation in the
following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing
after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Bridge Oilier .................................................................................
Custodial Worker ........................................................................
Window Washer ..........................................................................

Minimum
$10.20
11.83
14.40

Maximum
$19.31
15.74
21.73

Section 8. International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council 8 AFL-CIO. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.

Accountant I .................................................................................
Accountant II ...............................................................................
Accountant III..............................................................................
Accountant Clerk I.....................................................................
Accountant Clerk II...................................................................
Activities Therapist ...................................................................
Airport Information Representative ....................................
Airport Operations Agent I.....................................................
Airport Operations Agent II...................................................
Airport Safety Man ....................................................................
Architect .........................................................................................
Associate Engineer.....................................................................
Assistant Plan Examiner.........................................................
Assistant Residential Plan Examiner ................................
Associate Programmer ..............................................................
Bill Collector.................................................................................
Billing Clerk .................................................................................
Building Inspector ......................................................................
Building Inspector I ..................................................................
Building Inspector II ................................................................
Building Inspector III...............................................................
Building Inspector IV ...............................................................
Caseworker I ................................................................................
Caseworker II ..............................................................................
Cashier/Starter .............................................................................
Chemist ...........................................................................................
Chief Miscellaneous Investigator..........................................
Citizens Information Representative...................................
Claims Examiner.........................................................................
Clinical Laboratory Assistant ................................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician I .........................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician II .......................................
Community Development Planner ........................................
Community Health Aide...........................................................
Community Relations Representative I .............................
Community Relations Representative II ...........................
Community Relations Representative III..........................
Computer Monitor Assistant ...................................................
Computer Operator......................................................................
Construction Technician...........................................................
Consumer Protection Specialist .............................................
Contract and Monitoring Specialist .....................................
Cook .................................................................................................
Copy Center Operator................................................................
Customer Service Representative .........................................
Data Control Clerk.....................................................................
Data Conversion Operator .......................................................
Development Officer ..................................................................
Disease Intervention Specialist I .........................................
Disease Intervention Specialist II........................................
Drug and Alcohol Counselor ..................................................
Elevator Inspector ......................................................................
Engineer .........................................................................................

703

Minimum
$14.39
14.88
15.48
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.14
17.13
21.52
17.19
10.00
17.83
16.29
13.42
10.00
12.14
10.00
14.26
14.08
14.89
15.70
26.35
13.33
14.03
10.00
18.49
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
16.86
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.02
10.00
10.00
13.77
10.00
12.15
10.00
12.02
10.00
17.83
19.81
10.00
14.23
22.78

Maximum
$21.23
23.30
25.84
17.21
18.58
16.29
17.84
22.05
25.96
24.24
32.10
30.02
24.50
24.50
24.95
17.83
17.12
23.68
25.86
27.32
28.77
30.27
19.36
21.23
21.24
28.21
24.50
20.27
24.50
20.27
23.30
24.95
30.90
17.20
20.27
24.50
30.32
14.73
24.50
24.50
19.37
25.93
16.75
19.70
18.57
17.84
16.17
28.77
24.71
27.35
15.78
25.86
36.56

38
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.

The City Record
Environmental Compliance Specialist I .............................
Environmental Compliance Specialist II ...........................
Environmental Compliance Specialist III .........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist I...........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist II.........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist III .......................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist I ..............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist II ............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist III...........................
Financial Analyst .......................................................................
Financial Counselor ...................................................................
First Press Operator ..................................................................
General Storekeeper ...................................................................
Geriatric Outreach Worker .....................................................
Hazardous Material Specialist ...............................................
Head Cook .....................................................................................
Head Storekeeper ........................................................................
Help Desk Analyst.....................................................................
Home Maintenance Aide ..........................................................
House Connection Inspector ...................................................
Residential Building Inspector..............................................
Income Tax Tracer ....................................................................
Information Control Analyst ..................................................
Inspector of Weight and Measures .....................................
Instrumentation Technician I ................................................
Instrumentation Technician II ..............................................
Instrument Repairman ..............................................................
Intake Specialist .........................................................................
Interim Building Inspector .....................................................
Interim Mechanical Inspector ................................................
Interim Residential Building Inspector .............................
Interim Residential Plan Examiner ....................................
Junior Cashier..............................................................................
Junior Clerk ..................................................................................
Lab Coordinator...........................................................................
Laboratory Assistant .................................................................
Landscape Designer ...................................................................
Life Guard .....................................................................................
Life Guard Captain ....................................................................
Mechanical Inspector I .............................................................
Mechanical Inspector II ...........................................................
Mechanical Inspector III..........................................................
Mechanical Inspector IV ........................................................
Medical Billing Reimbursement Specialist .......................
Medical Coder and Billing Analyst .....................................
Messenger.......................................................................................
Meter Reader ................................................................................
Miscellaneous Investigator ......................................................
Monitoring, Auditing and Evaluation Coordinator ........
Network Analyst I......................................................................
On The Job Training Specialist ...........................................
Parking Attendant......................................................................
Parking Meter Collector...........................................................
Parking Meter Serviceman......................................................
Permit Processing Specialist ..................................................
Pharmacist .....................................................................................
Photographer ................................................................................
Photographic Laboratory Technician..................................
Physical Director I.....................................................................
Physical Director II...................................................................
Residential Plan Examiner.....................................................
Play Director ................................................................................
Pressman ........................................................................................
Preventive Health Counselor..................................................
Preventive Health Educator ...................................................
Principal Cashier ........................................................................
Principal Clerk ............................................................................
Print Shop Helper.......................................................................
Private Secretary ........................................................................
Program Analyst .........................................................................
Programmer...................................................................................
Programmer Analyst..................................................................
Property Clerk .............................................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker.......................................................
Public Health Nursing Aide ...................................................
Public Health Sanitarian I .....................................................

704

May 13, 2015
14.95
16.35
17.90
14.95
16.35
17.90
13.33
14.18
15.74
10.00
10.00
12.00
19.25
10.00
21.63
10.00
17.85
12.02
10.00
15.39
17.69
12.60
10.00
12.89
20.44
22.81
10.00
10.00
19.00
19.00
15.75
20.25
11.14
11.97
16.82
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
14.08
14.89
15.70
27.39
10.42
10.17
10.00
15.53
15.35
13.65
14.52
12.71
10.00
10.00
16.49
10.00
10.74
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
19.56
10.00
10.00
13.59
10.00
14.66
14.88
12.85
10.00
16.64
10.00
10.00
11.37
12.48
10.63
15.48

24.41
25.56
32.90
25.41
26.63
27.92
25.19
26.38
27.63
23.30
24.50
23.38
26.23
22.62
35.00
18.91
24.24
27.14
16.70
19.84
21.36
19.82
22.23
18.81
22.81
25.13
22.46
17.21
21.39
21.39
17.74
22.81
17.83
14.86
28.24
20.27
30.32
16.98
21.02
25.86
27.32
28.77
30.27
22.50
23.19
16.01
20.25
19.57
23.65
37.08
22.85
17.21
17.18
18.06
14.41
33.88
23.30
20.27
20.94
22.60
27.69
14.69
22.86
23.69
15.92
24.95
21.12
15.72
22.29
32.30
28.78
32.30
35.76
23.23
14.98
22.33

May 13, 2015
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.

The City Record

Public Health Sanitarian II....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian III..................................................
Public Health Sanitarian IV ..................................................
Public Information Officer ......................................................
Quality Assurance Analyst .....................................................
Quality Control Coordinator ...................................................
Radio Dispatcher.........................................................................
Radio Technician ........................................................................
Receptionist...................................................................................
Recreation Aide ...........................................................................
Recreation Instructor ................................................................
Recreation Instructor I.............................................................
Recreation Instructor II ...........................................................
Recreation Instructor III .........................................................
Redevelopment Advisor ............................................................
Redevelopment Coordinator ....................................................
Registered Animal Health Technician ...............................
Rehabilitation Inspector ...........................................................
Second Press Operator ..............................................................
Secretary.........................................................................................
Secretary to Director of Consumer Affairs ......................
Senior Assistant City Planner ...............................................
Senior Assistant Designer .......................................................
Senior Assistant Mechanical Engineer...............................
Senior Cashier ..............................................................................
Senior Chemist .............................................................................
Senior Clerk ..................................................................................
Senior Computer Operator .......................................................
Senior Contract and Monitoring Specialist .......................
Senior Data Conversion Operator .........................................
Senior Development Officer ....................................................
Senior Draftsman ........................................................................
Senior Laboratory Technician................................................
Senior Landscape Architect ....................................................
Sewer Service Man .....................................................................
Site Inspector................................................................................
Social Worker for Homeless ..................................................
Starter (Golf) ...............................................................................
Stenographer III ........................................................................
Stock Clerk....................................................................................
Storekeeper ....................................................................................
Surveyor..........................................................................................
Tax Auditor I...............................................................................
Tax Auditor II .............................................................................
Technical Specialist ...................................................................
Technical Specifications Writer ............................................
Telecommunications Analyst I ..............................................
Telephone Operator ....................................................................
Telephone Supervisor ................................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Technician ...............................
Trainee Building Inspector .....................................................
Trainee Residential Plan Examiner ...................................
Typist ..............................................................................................
Water Hydraulic Repairman ..................................................
Water Meter Repairman ..........................................................
Water Pipe Repairman .............................................................
Water Serviceman.......................................................................
Water System Construction Inspector ................................
Web Content Editor ...................................................................

39
17.38
15.49
18.77
10.00
10.00
16.82
17.33
19.85
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
17.69
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.57
17.61
12.47
10.00
11.34
13.47
12.63
11.69
10.86
10.00
18.16
10.00
13.82
10.00
10.00
13.11
16.66
10.00
14.39
15.48
10.00
10.00
14.53
10.00
10.00
16.57
18.60
18.25
12.02
18.16
16.18
16.77
10.00
18.97
10.00

24.80
26.03
31.99
24.50
28.77
28.25
22.05
22.05
15.24
11.83
17.21
18.34
15.21
20.13
25.84
28.74
17.21
28.75
20.91
18.59
30.32
25.84
25.84
25.84
21.23
24.50
17.43
28.78
30.51
19.37
37.76
20.83
18.95
32.09
20.25
24.50
24.10
14.24
19.37
19.16
21.82
28.78
20.76
22.84
24.50
25.85
44.60
17.99
18.58
18.59
21.36
22.21
16.17
20.25
20.25
21.68
17.30
25.31
31.28

Section 9. Teamsters Local 507. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Correctional Officer....................................................................
Guard ...............................................................................................

Minimum
$17.29
17.29

Maximum
$19.37
18.27

Section 11. International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 10. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after
each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Assistant Superintendent of Sewer Maintenance ...........
Chief Radio Dispatcher-Water ...............................................
Data Conversion Supervisor....................................................
Engineer of Hydraulic Surveys ............................................

705

Minimum
$25.78
23.34
20.47
29.11

Maximum
$27.36
24.78
21.73
30.70

40

The City Record

5.
6.

Meter Reader Supervisor..........................................................
Sewer Construction & Maintenance
Operations Supervisor............................................................
Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader ...........................................
Sewer Maintenance Unit Leader Operator ........................
Supervisor of Radio Service ...................................................
Unit Supervisor ............................................................................
Water Hydraulic Unit Leader................................................
Water Hydraulic Supervisor ...................................................
Water Meter Department Unit Leader ...............................
Water Meter Department Supervisor...................................
Water Pipe Repair Unit Leader ...........................................
Water Pipe Repair Supervisor...............................................

7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.

May 13, 2015
23.03

24.44

25.45
22.06
23.18
24.86
23.06
22.11
24.93
22.11
24.93
22.49
25.85

27.08
23.53
24.66
26.38
24.46
23.53
26.53
23.53
26.53
23.94
27.51

Section 13. International Union of Painters and Allied Trades, District Council 6. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule
appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Sign Painter ..................................................................................
Sign Painter Unit Leader ........................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Supervisor ................................
Traffic Sign Process Operator ...............................................

Minimum
$23.23
24.23
13.28
13.28

Maximum
$33.60
36.18
26.33
26.36

Section 14. Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association. (Security Officers). That salaries and compensation in the
following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing
after each classification:

1.

Security Officer............................................................................

Minimum
$14.16

Maximum
$21.96

Section 15. Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (Chief Dispatcher). That the salaries and the compensation
in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.

Chief Radio Dispatcher ............................................................

Minimum
$47,070.48

Maximum
$51,328.22

Section 16. City, County and Waste Paper Drivers Union, Local No. 244, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.

Airport Maintenance Man ........................................................
Animal Control Officer .............................................................
Concrete Mixer Driver ..............................................................
Ground Maintenance Truck Driver......................................
Ground Maintenance Truck Driver II ................................
Hostler.............................................................................................
Parking Enforcement Officer.................................................
Section Supervisor (part-time/seasonal) ............................
Snow Removal Vehicle Operator (part-time/seasonal)
Street Carry-all Driver ..............................................................
Street Maintenance Equipment Leader ..............................
Street Equipment Maintenance Specialist .........................
Tanker Truck Driver ................................................................
Traffic Controller........................................................................
Truck Driver.................................................................................
Waste Collection Driver ...........................................................
Waste Collection Roll Off Driver.........................................

Minimum
$19.09
17.64
23.69
24.85
19.73
15.66
15.55
10.00
17.10
24.85
25.81
24.85
24.85
15.55
19.99
19.71
23.66

Maximum
$19.86
18.36
24.64
25.85
20.52
16.29
16.18
17.27
18.19
25.85
26.85
25.85
25.85
16.18
20.80
22.79
24.62

Section 18. S.E.M.E., Local 1. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Auto Body Repair Unit Leader .............................................
Automobile Repair Worker .....................................................
Automobile Repairman Unit Leader....................................
Heavy Duty Auto Body Repair Worker ............................
Heavy Duty Mechanic...............................................................
Heavy Duty Unit Leader .........................................................
Small Equipment Repair Worker .........................................
Tire Repair Worker...................................................................
Welder .............................................................................................
Welder/Fabricator ......................................................................

706

Minimum
$12.88
12.60
17.78
15.73
15.75
23.85
12.26
14.08
18.36
18.36

Maximum
$27.01
22.26
27.01
23.56
26.65
33.07
21.02
20.56
25.94
26.64

The City Record

May 13, 2015

41

Section 20. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 38. That salaries and compensation in the
following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing
after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Electrical
Electrical
Electrical
Electrical

Inspector
Inspector
Inspector
Inspector

1................................................................
2................................................................
3................................................................
4................................................................

Minimum
$14.83
15.66
16.49
26.88

Maximum
$25.86
27.32
28.77
30.27

Section 21. Plumbers Local 55 (Plumbers Inspectors). That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Plumbing
Plumbing
Plumbing
Plumbing

Inspector
Inspector
Inspector
Inspector

1 ................................................................
2 ................................................................
3 ................................................................
4 ................................................................

Minimum
$14.83
15.66
16.49
26.88

Maximum
$25.86
27.32
28.77
30.27

Section 22. Cleveland Association of Rescue Employees (CARE), Local 1975. That salaries and compensation in
the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Emergency Medical Dispatcher .............................................
Emergency Medical Dispatcher Trainee............................
Emergency Medical Technician ............................................
Emergency Medical Technician Trainee ...........................
Paramedic I...................................................................................
Paramedic II .................................................................................
Paramedic III ...............................................................................

Minimum
$24,765.24
10.50
26,336.35
10.50
27,741.02
29,239.09
33,570.30

Maximum
$44,715.21
10.50
48,777.99
10.50
50,620.38
51,080.97
52,724.63

Section 24. Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications
shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.

Public Health Nurse I...............................................................
Public Health Nurse II.............................................................
Public Health Nurse III ...........................................................

Minimum
$23,146.64
35,887.06
39,098.75

Maximum
$49,457.78
51,208.16
56,231.40

Section 26. Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’ Union
Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Non-Supervisory). That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be
fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9..
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

Accident and Safety Inspector...............................................
Arborist I .......................................................................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man I .............................................
Cemeteries Maintenance Man II ...........................................
Cold Patch and Crack Sealing Worker .............................
Engineering and Construction Inspector...........................
Gardener .........................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Man ........................................................
Laborer I ........................................................................................
Mechanical Handyman ..............................................................
Municipal Service Laborer.......................................................
Practical Nurse ............................................................................
Radio Operator.............................................................................
Real Estate Maintenance Man ..............................................
Sidewalk Inspector .....................................................................
Street Permit Supervisor ..........................................................
Street Sweeper - Waste Collection .......................................
Transfer Station Attendant .....................................................
Waste Collector ...........................................................................

Minimum
$21.49
18.81
16.86
26.02
18.47
20.12
18.81
16.86
16.82
17.57
16.86
18.99
19.28
17.82
18.42
16.82
16.41
22.50
16.86

Maximum
$23.49
20.81
18.86
28.02
20.47
22.12
20.81
18.86
18.86
19.57
18.86
20.99
21.28
19.82
20.42
18.82
18.41
24.50
18.86

Section 27. Municipal Foremen and Laborer’s Union (Chartered: Municipal, County & State Employees’ Union
Local 1099, AFL-CIO)(Supervisory). That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed
by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Airport Field Foreman .............................................................
Arborist II .....................................................................................
Assistant Manager of Parks and Urban Forestry.........
Assistant Superintendent of Waste Collection ................

707

Minimum
$21.32
21.68
26.31
26.95

Maximum
$23.32
23.68
28.31
28.95

42
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

The City Record

May 13, 2015

Cemetery Foreman .....................................................................
Cemetery Supervisor ..................................................................
Chief Engineering and Construction Inspector ..............
Cold Patch and Crack Sealing Foreman...........................
Custodial Worker Supervisor .................................................
General Construction Foreman ..............................................
General Shop Foreman .............................................................
Greenskeeper ................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Crew Foreman ...................................
Ground Maintenance Foreman ...............................................
Horticulturist ................................................................................
Horticulturist Maintenance Foreman ..................................
Labor Foreman ............................................................................
Maintenance Foreman ...............................................................
Parking Coordinator ..................................................................
Set-Up Foreman............................................................................
Street Maintenance Foreman..................................................
Street Maintenance General Foreman.................................
Waste Collection Foreman ......................................................
Waste Collection Foreman I ..................................................

21.33
24.42
26.77
24.54
19.78
33.41
26.97
22.13
18.18
21.33
30.55
23.88
21.32
20.43
22.50
17.85
21.32
26.97
21.32
23.36

23.33
26.42
28.77
26.54
21.78
35.41
28.97
24.13
20.18
23.33
32.55
25.88
23.32
22.43
24.50
19.85
23.32
28.97
23.32
25.36

Section 28. Cleveland Scientific Examiners – Fingerprinters (FOP/OLCI). That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule
appearing after each classification:

1.
2.

Minimum
$22,440.00
25,500.00

Fingerprint Examiner ...............................................................
Scientific Examiner....................................................................

Maximum
$45,456.15
63,063.40

Section 31. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.

Administrative Officer ..............................................................
Cable Protection Specialist .....................................................
Case Worker Supervisor...........................................................
Chief Caseworker Supervisor .................................................
Chief Clerk ....................................................................................
Chief Photographer ....................................................................
Chief Telephone Operator........................................................
Economic Development Specialist ........................................
Epidemiologist..............................................................................
Personnel Analyst I ...................................................................
Public Health Emergency Preparedness Specialist.......
Safety Programs Officer I.......................................................
Safety Programs Officer II .....................................................
Secretary to Board of Examiner of Board of Review
(Electrical) ................................................................................
Secretary - Boxing and Wrestling Commission ..............
Superintendent of Maintenance .............................................
Supervisor of Income Tax Files ...........................................

Minimum
$20,800.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
22,426.64
22,050.00
20,800.00
20,800.00
40,000.00
40,000.00
21,000.00
30,160.00
25,000.00
25,000.00

Maximum
$58,499.94
41,314.46
49,942.38
50,729.94
52,504.47
56,521.12
55,253.61
52,000.00
91,405.96
52,182.05
58,910.68
73,126.73
51,187.74

20,800.00
30,573.46
23,606.98
20,800.00

43,927.25
40,109.95
63,186.02
43,927.24

Section 49. Hourly Rate - 1099 Crafts. Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established in the following
schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Asphalt Construction Unit Leader........................................
Asphalt Tamper ...........................................................................
Bricklayer Helper .......................................................................
Jackhammer Operator ...............................................................
Paver................................................................................................
Paving Unit Leader ...................................................................
Superintendent of Construction Equipment ......................

Effective
Date
3/31/2015
3/31/2015
3/31/2015
3/31/2015
3/31/2015
3/31/2015
3/31/2015

Minimum
$26.37
25.29
25.96
25.29
25.63
26.37
26.37

Maximum
$39.56
37.91
38.94
37.91
38.46
39.56
39.56

Section 2. That existing Sections 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 27, 28, 31, and 49 of Ordinance
No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

708

May 13, 2015
Ord. No. 537-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Ride of Silence, on May
20, 2015, sponsored by Bike Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Ride for Silence, on May 20, 2015,
start: Free Stamp in Willard Park—
left onto Lakeside Avenue, E.; right
onto East 12th Street; left onto Euclid
Avenue; slight right to stay on Euclid;
right onto Adelbert Road—University
Hospitals; provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Ord. No. 538-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone and Brady.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Rite Aid 2015 Cleveland
Marathon, Half Marathon and 10K
Course on May 17, 2015, and the 5K
Course on May 16, 2015.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the
Rite
Aid
2015
Cleveland
Marathon, Marathon Course (on May
17, 2015) start: Ontario Street at the
Quicken Loans Arena, northwest corner of the building; straight on
Ontario to Prospect Avenue; turn
right on Prospect to East 9th Street;
turn left on East 9th to Euclid
Avenue; turn right on Euclid to East
18th Street; right on East 18th to
Carnegie Avenue; right on Carnegie,
becomes Lorain Avenue, to West 20th
Street; turn left on West 20th to Abbey
Avenue; turn left on Abbey to West
11th Street left on West 11th to Starkweather Avenue; right on Starkweather to West 14th Street; left on
West 14th to Clark Avenue; right on
Clark to Scranton Road; right on
Scranton to Barber Avenue; left on
Barber to West 25th Street; right on

The City Record
West 25 to Lorain Avenue; left on
Lorain to West 58th Street; right on
West 58th to Detroit Avenue; left on
Detroit Avenue (in west bound lanes,
with traffic) to Lake Avenue; turn
right (30 degrees) on Lake Avenue to
West Boulevard; turn left West Boulevard to Detroit Avenue; turn right on
Detroit Avenue (in west bound lanes,
with traffic) to West Boulevard; turn
left on West Boulevard to Western
Avenue; right on Western Avenue to
West 103rd Street; right on West 103rd
to Madison Avenue; left on Madison to
West 116th Street; right on West 116th
to Franklin Boulevard; right on
Franklin, becomes West 110th Street,
to Baltic Road; right on Baltic to West
104th Street; left on West 104th to
Clifton Boulevard; left on Clifton (in
west bound lanes with traffic) to
West 110th Street; right on West 110th
to Lake Avenue; left on Lake Avenue
(in east bound lanes, against traffic)
into the City of Lakewood, Ohio; then
from the City of Lakewood east on
Lake Avenue to West 117th Street and
the City of Cleveland; left on West
117th to Edgewater Drive; right on
Edgewater Drive to West Boulevard
and the Cleveland Memorial Shoreway exit ramp; straight on the Cleveland Memorial Shoreway, (in west
bound lanes, against traffic), to
Shoreway exit ramp to West Lakeside
Avenue; bear left at top of Cleveland
Memorial Shoreway exit ramp to
West Lakeside Avenue; straight on
West Lakeside Avenue to Ontario
Street (Cuyahoga County Courthouse)—-FINISH; Half Marathon
Course (on May 17, 2015) start:
Ontario Street at the Quicken Loans
Arena, northwest corner of the building; straight on Ontario to Prospect
Avenue; turn right on Prospect to
East 9th Street; turn left on East 9th
to Euclid Avenue; turn right on
Euclid to East 18th Street; right on
East 18th to Carnegie Avenue; right
on Carnegie, becomes Lorain Avenue,
to West 20th Street; turn left on West
20th to Abbey Avenue; turn left on
Abbey to West 11th Street; left on
West 11th to Starkweather Avenue;
right on Starkweather to West 14th
Street; left on West 14th to Clark
Avenue; right on Clark to Scranton
Road; right on Scranton to Barber
Avenue; left on Barber to West 25th
Street; right on West 25th to Lorain
Avenue; left on Lorain to West 58th
Street; right on West 58th to Detroit
Avenue; left on Detroit Avenue (in
west bound lanes, with traffic) to
Lake Avenue; turn right (30 degrees)
on Lake Avenue to West Boulevard;
West Boulevard to Clifton Boulevard;
(Marathon and Half Marathon Split;
right on Clifton to West 104th Street;
right on West 104th to Lake Avenue;
right on Lake Avenue (in east bound
lanes, with traffic) to West Boulevard/Cleveland Memorial Shoreway
entrance ramp; bear left at entrance
ramp, stay on Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway to West Lakeside Avenue
exit ramp; bear right at top of West
Lakeside exit ramp to West Lakeside
Avenue; straight on West Lakeside
Avenue to just west Ontario Street
(Cuyahoga County Courthouse—FINISH; 10K Course (on May 17, 2015)
start: Ontario Street at Quicken Loans
Arena, northwest corner of the building; straight on Ontario to Prospect
Avenue; right on Prospect to East 9th
Street; left on East 9th to Euclid
Avenue; right on Euclid to East 18th
Street; right on East 18th to Carnegie
Avenue; right on Carnegie, becomes

709

43
Lorain Avenue, to West 25th Street;
right on West 25th to Franklin Boulevard; left on Franklin to West 54th
Street; right on West 54th to Herman
Avenue; right on Herman Avenue to
Cleveland
Memorial
Shoreway
entrance/exit ramp; bear left on
entrance ramp to Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway; straight on Cleveland
Memorial Shoreway (in west bound
lanes, against traffic) to shoreway
exit ramp at West Lakeside Avenue;
bear left at top of Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway/West Lakeside Avenue
entrance ramp to West Lakeside
Avenue; straight on West Lakeside
Avenue to just west on Ontario Street
(Cuyahoga County Courthouse)—
FINISH; 5K Course (on May 16, 2015)
start: Edgewater Park (upper section-access from West Boulevard)
near east end parking lot; straight on
the Edgewater Park Upper Section
entrance/exit road to West Boulevard; bear left at West Boulevard to
Lake Avenue; left on Lake Avenue to
West 76th Street; left at West 76th to
Herman Avenue; right at Herman to
West 73rd Street; left at West 73rd to
Father Frascati Avenue; left on
Father Frascati Avenue to West 74th
Street; left on West 74th to Goodwalt
Avenue; right on Goodwalt to West
76th Street; right on West 76th to
Cleveland MetroParks (railroad)
Underpass; straight through the
Cleveland MetroParks (railroad)
Underpass to Pedestrian/Bike Path
Loop; right at the Pedestrian/Bike
Path Loop, complete loop counterclockwise to Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway Underpass; right at Cleveland Memorial Shoreway Underpass
to Edgewater Park (lower section)
Pedestrian/Bike Path; merge right at
Edgewater Park (lower section)
Pedestrian/Bike Path, complete path
loop counterclockwise to Pavilions
(eastside of beach)—FINISH; provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Ord. No. 539-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Economic Development to enter into
an agreement with Tonda Lanton or
designee for the Crawford Building
Project through the use of Ward 9
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record

44
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of the Department of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Tonda
Lanton or designee for the Crawford
Project located at 1204 – 1212 East
105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44108 for
the public purpose of exterior
improvements for local area businesses resulting in new job creation for
Cleveland residents through the use
of Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $12,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Ord. No. 540-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with Building Bridges
Collaborative, Inc., for the Migration
Arts Education Project through the
use of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement effective February 1, 2015
with Building Bridges Collaborative,
Inc., for the Migration Arts Education
Project for the public purpose of providing art and mediation education
through the use of Ward 3 Casino
Revenue Funds.

May 13, 2015

Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 4, 2015.
Effective May 6, 2015.

Ord. No. 541-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Economic Development to enter into
an
agreement
with
Alphonso
Mitchum or designee for the Al’s Deli
Project through the use of Ward 9
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of the Department of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Alphonso Mitchum or designee for the Al’s
Deli Project located at 10604 Superior
Ave, Cleveland, Ohio 44106 for the
public purpose of exterior improvements for local area businesses
resulting in new job creation for
Cleveland residents through the use
of Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $12,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

2:00 p.m.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, May 11, 2015
9:30 a.m.
Municipal Services and Properties
Committee: Present: K. Johnson,
Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Brancatelli,
J. Johnson, Kazy, Reed. Authorized
Absence: Cummins.

Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Keane, Mitchell,
Pruitt. Authorized Absence: Conwell,
Zone.
Tuesday, May 12, 2015
9:30 a.m.
Development, Planning and Sustainability (Zoning) Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Cimperman,
Authorized
Dow,
Pruitt,
Zone.
Cleveland,
Vice
Chair;
Absence:
Cummins.
Development, Planning and Sustainability
Committee:
Present:
Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice
Chair;
Cimperman,
Dow,
Pruitt,
Zone. Authorized Absence: Cummins.
1:30 p.m.
Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Present: Cleveland,
Chair;
Zone,
Vice
Chair;
Kazy,
Polensek,
Authorized
Pruitt.
Absence: J. Johnson, Reed.
Wednesday, May 13, 2015
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee: Present: Zone,
Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair; Kazy,
Mitchell,
Polensek.
Authorized
Absence: Cimperman, Keane.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Al’s Deli Project — job creation — Alphonso Mitchum — Economic Development (Ward 09 CRF)
(O 541-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crawford Building Project — Tonda Lanton — job creation — Economic Development
(Ward 09 CRF) (O 539-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County — donation of property — West Side Market (O 568-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health and Human Services Community Fair — provide health education and screenings —
Union Miles Development Corporation — Health Department (Ward 02 CRF) (O 560-15) . .
MCPc, Inc. gift of Cisco Wi-Fi equipment, and licenses (O 567-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Migration Arts Education Projects — providing art and mediation education — Building
Bridges Collaborative Inc., — Community Development (Ward 03CRF) (O 540-15) . . . . . . . .

710

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710

May 13, 2015

The City Record

45

Mt. Pleasant Historical Markers Project — provide public art with historical content —
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation — Community Development — Health
Department (Ward 02 CRF) (O 559-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
Omni Media Cleveland, Inc. — kiosk flexibility — amend Contract 55936 — City
Planning Commission (O 379-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700

Appropriations
Administrative expenses — appropriate CDBG and Federal Home funds (O 435-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700

Banners
Apostolic Faith Tabernacle, City of Hope Ministries — East 105th St. & Columbia Ave. —
May 13 to June 12 — Friends & Family Weekend on June 12th — Capital Projects Office
(Ward 09) (O 574-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — May 13 to June 12 — Welcoming the community —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 573-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679

Board of Control — Burke Lakefront Airport Division
Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting Facility & Consolidated Maintenance Facility relocation —
per Ord. 740-13 to URS Corporation — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 166-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Design/build services for Dwayne Browder Synthetic Turf Football Field — per Ord. 353-15
to the Motz Group, LLC (BOC Res. 171-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East Side Maintenance Building Phase II — amend Contract #PI2014000000045 — remove
subcontractors — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 173-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repairing and constructing improvements to City right-of-ways — per Ord. 1325-14 — all
bids rejected (BOC Res. 170-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repairing and constructing improvements to City right-of-ways — per Ord. 1325-14 — all
bids rejected (BOC Res. 172-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repairing and constructing improvements to City right-of-ways — per Ord. 1325-14 to
Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. — rejected (BOC Res. 169-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell parcels (Land Bank and Non-Land Bank Properties b/w I-490 and E. 55th to
Chester Ave. and E. 105th) — per Ord. 726-14 to Ohio Department of Transportation
(ODOT) — Division of Purchase and Supplies, Depts. of Public Works, Community
Development, Ohio Dept. of Transportation (BOC Res. 174-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Cleveland Botanical Garden — lease various parcels on scattered sites (Ward 6)
(BOC Res. 177-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road, 5716/5710 (Ward 5) — PPN’s 124-12-048/049 — The Word Church
(BOC Res. 175-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell parcels (Land Bank and Non-Land Bank Properties b/w I-490 and E. 55th to
Chester Ave. and E. 105th) — per Ord. 726-14 to Ohio Department of Transportation
(ODOT) — Division of Purchase and Supplies, Dept. of Public Works, Office of Capital
Projects, Ohio Dept. of Transportation (BOC Res. 174-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 50th Street, 3247 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-13-006 — Betty Dean and Gordon Dean
(BOC Res. 176-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

Board of Control — Finance Department
Keys, locks, and hardware services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Commercial Door Service,
Inc. dba Cleveland key & Security (BOC Res. 162-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Cleveland Botanical Garden — lease various parcels on scattered sites (Ward 6)
(BOC Res. 177-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Kinsman Road, 5716/5710 (Ward 5) — PPN’s 124-12-048/049 — The Word Church
(BOC Res. 175-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
West 50th Street, 3247 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-13-006 — Betty Dean and Gordon Dean
(BOC Res. 176-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

Board of Control — Land Sales
Sell parcels (Land Bank and Non-Land Bank Properties b/w I-490 and E. 55th to
Chester Ave. and E. 105th) — per Ord. 726-14 to Ohio Department of Transportation
(ODOT) — Division of Purchase and Supplies, Depts. of Public Works, Community
Development, Office of Capital Projects, Ohio Dept. of Transportation (BOC Res. 174-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

711

The City Record

46

May 13, 2015

Board of Control — Ohio Department of Transportation
Sell parcels (Land Bank and Non-Land Bank Properties b/w I-490 and E. 55th to
Chester Ave. and E. 105th) — per Ord. 726-14 to Ohio Department of Transportation
(ODOT) — Division of Purchase and Supplies, Depts. of Public Works, Community
Development, Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 174-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting Facility & Consolidated Maintenance Facility relocation —
per Ord. 740-13 to URS Corporation — Division of Burke Lakefront Airport (BOC Res. 166-15) . .
Planning studies — second modify Contract #PS2011*185 per BOC Res. 348-11 (BOC Res. 165-15).
Support and maintenance of core information technology activities — per Ord. 562-14 to
LOGOS Communications Systems, Inc. (BOC Res. 168-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support and maintenance of core information technology activities — per Ord. 562-14 to
Vertex Computer Systems, Inc. (BOC Res. 167-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting Facility & Consolidated Maintenance Facility relocation —
per Ord. 740-13 to URS Corporation — Division of Burke Lakefront Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 166-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Design/build services for Dwayne Browder Synthetic Turf Football Field — per Ord. 353-15
to the Motz Group, LLC — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 171-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Planning studies — second modify Contract #PS2011*185 per BOC Res. 348-11 — Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 165-15), (Support and maintenance of core information technology
activities — per Ord. 562-14 to LOGOS Communications Systems, Inc. — Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 168-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support and maintenance of core information technology activities — per Ord. 562-14 to
Vertex Computer Systems, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 167-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting Facility & Consolidated Maintenance Facility relocation —
per Ord. 740-13 to URS Corporation — Division of Burke Lakefront Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 166-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East Side Maintenance Building Phase II — amend Contract #PI2014000000045 — remove
subcontractors — Dept. of Public Works, Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 173-15) . . .
Massie Avenue Sewer Replacement Project — per Ord. 991-14 to Terrace Construction Co.,
Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 164-15) . . .
Repairing and constructing improvements to City right-of-ways — per Ord. 1325-14 — all
bids rejected — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 170-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repairing and constructing improvements to City right-of-ways — per Ord. 1325-14 — all
bids rejected — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 172-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repairing and constructing improvements to City right-of-ways — per Ord. 1325-14 to
Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. — rejected — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 169-15) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Massie Avenue Sewer Replacement Project — per Ord. 991-14 to Terrace Construction Co.,
Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 164-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
Sodium hypochlorite solution — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Bonded Chemicals, Inc. — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 163-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682

Board of Control — Public Works Department
East Side Maintenance Building Phase II — amend Contract #PI2014000000045 — remove
subcontractors — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 173-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Sell parcels (Land Bank and Non-Land Bank Properties b/w I-490 and E. 55th to
Chester Ave. and E. 105th) — per Ord. 726-14 to Ohio Department of Transportation
(ODOT) — Division of Purchase and Supplies, Dept. of Community Development, Office
of Capital Projects, Ohio Dept. of Transportation (BOC Res. 174-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell parcels (Land Bank and Non-Land Bank Properties b/w I-490 and E. 55th to
Chester Ave. and E. 105th) — per Ord. 726-14 to Ohio Department of Transportation
(ODOT) — Depts. of Public Works, Community Development, Office of Capital Projects,
Ohio Dept. of Transportation (BOC Res. 174-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Keys, locks, and hardware services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Commercial Door Service,
Inc. dba Cleveland key & Security — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 162-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
Repairing and constructing improvements to City right-of-ways — per Ord. 1325-14 — all
bids rejected — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 170-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

712

May 13, 2015

The City Record

47

Repairing and constructing improvements to City right-of-ways — per Ord. 1325-14 — all
bids rejected — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 172-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Repairing and constructing improvements to City right-of-ways — per Ord. 1325-14 to
Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. — rejected — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 169-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
Sodium hypochlorite solution — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Bonded Chemicals, Inc. — Division
of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 163-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682

Board of Control — Water Division
Sodium hypochlorite solution — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Bonded Chemicals, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 163-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Massie Avenue Sewer Replacement Project — per Ord. 991-14 to Terrace Construction Co.,
Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 164-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Chatfield Avenue, 15201 (Ward 17) – M & H Investment Co., owner — appeal affirmed
to 11/10/15 on 5/11/15 (Cal. 14-173) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 1862 (Ward 6) – East 123rd Street Properties Ltd., owner —
appeal granted and adopted on 5/11/15 (Cal. 14-238) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 6th Street, 1965 (Ward 3) – Corning Place Ohio LLC, owner — appeal heard on 5/11/15
(Cal. 15-69) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kenilworth Avenue, 1112 (Ward 3) – Kathleen Crowther, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 5/11/15 (Cal. 15-66) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Magnolia Drive, 11125 (Ward 9) – Cleveland Music School Settlement, owner — appeal
granted and adopted on 5/11/15 (Cal. 15-64) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rockwell Avenue, 1425 (Ward 3) – Cleveland Tech Holdings, LLC, owner — appeal heard on
5/11/15 (Cal. 15-79). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tuck’s Track, 2151 (Ward 15) – Clifton and Heather Barber, owners — appeal postponed to
6/15/15 on 5/11/15 (Cal. 15-70) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th Street, 3275 (Ward 11) – Bruce Zavotka, owner, and Mike Hohlakis, prospective
purchaser — appeal heard on 5/11/15 (Cal. 15-68) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th Place, 2562 (Ward 3) – Adam Sywank, owner — appeal heard on 5/11/15 (Cal. 15-71) . .
West 25th Street, 3179 (Ward 14) – Woodland Inc. (a.k.a. Ali Farai) — appeal heard on
5/11/15 (Cal. 15-23). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Franklin Boulevard, A, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-81) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, B, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-82) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, C, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-83) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, D, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-84) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, E, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-85) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, F, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-86) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, G, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-87) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, H, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-88) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, I, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-89) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, J, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-90) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, K, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-91) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, L, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-92) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, M, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-93) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, N, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-94) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, O, 3118 (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. — appeal to be heard
on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-95) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, P, 3118 (Access driveway) (Ward 3) – Franklin Ct. Townhomes L.P. —
appeal to be heard on 6/1/15 (Cal. 15-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gramatan Avenue, 14317 (Ward 17) – Diana Galdamez, owner — appeal to be heard on 6/1/15
(Cal. 15-102) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Park Avenue, 8206 (Ward 7) – Phyllis J. Wilson, owner — appeal to be heard on
6/1/15 (Cal. 15-101). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

713

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695

The City Record

48

May 13, 2015

Bonds
Refunding Bonds — 2008 Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax Bonds — Police and Fire
Pension Fund — Finance Department — Safety Department (O 515-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Burke Lakefront Airport
Deicing chemicals — FAA-approved — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
(O 580-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675

Capital Projects
Apostolic Faith Tabernacle, City of Hope Ministries — East 105th St. & Columbia Ave. —
banner — May 13 to June 12 — Friends & Family Weekend on June 12th (Ward 09)
(O 574-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Triathlon — July 26th — Pacific Sports LLC. (Ward 03, 15) (O 575-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 29th Street reconstruction — public improvement contracts (Ward 05) (O 581-15) . . . . . . . .
Gold Jacket 5K — June 7th — Pro Football Hall of Fame (Ward 03) (O 576-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grovewood Ave. / Lakeshore Blvd. — secondary and honorary designation — Stephen Halton,
Jr. Way — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 561-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North and South Marginal Roads (East 9th St. to East 55th St.) — consent and cause payment —
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 488-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ride of Silence — May 20th — Bike Cleveland (Ward 03) (O 537-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — May 13 to June 12 — banner — Welcoming the
community (Ward 03) (O 573-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure — September 12th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(Ward 03) (O 577-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

679
679
675
680

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680

City Council
Work Study Program — Amend Contract # 2014-108 — Saint Martin De Porres High School
(O 544-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

City Planning Commission
Approving the continuation of the Gordon Square Arts District (SID) — New plan for public
services; provide cleaning and maintenance of the public rights-of-way, additional
security and collective marketing for the District (Ward 15) (R 578-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave. (between W. 56th St. and W. 41st St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1434-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grovewood Ave. / Lakeshore Blvd. — secondary and honorary designation — Stephen Halton,
Jr. Way — Capital Projects Office (Ward 08) (O 561-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Ave.(west of) Clifton Blvd. — change Use and Area Districts (Ward 15) (O 998-14) . . . . . .
Lake Avenue north of Franklin Ave. (between W. 75th St. and W. 85th St.) — change
Use District (Ward 15) (O 398-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Omni Media Cleveland, Inc. — kiosk flexibility — amend Contract 55936 (O 379-15) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700

Clerk Of Council
Work Study Program — Amend Contract # 2014-108 — Saint Martin De Porres High School
(O 544-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI)
Deeds of easements — Cleveland Water Division Nottingham Water Treatment Plant —
Chardon Rd., 1300 — underground communication lines — Utilities Department (O 566-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Deicing chemicals — FAA-approved — Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 580-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675

Cleveland Municipal Court
Residential Opiate Project grant — amend Ord. No. 984-14 (O 562-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670

Codified Ordinances
Helicopters — enact Sections 489.01 to 489.06, 489.99 — Safety Department (O 564-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 671
Rental of League Park Baseball Field and League Park Visitors Center; Fee — enact Section
131.37 — amend Section 131.35 (Ward 07) (O 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699

714

May 13, 2015

The City Record

49

Communications
Notice of Repeal — Fare Adjustment due to Cost of Gasoline — Commissioner Stephens,
Division of Assessments and Licenses (F 570-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Community Development
Administrative expenses — appropriate CDBG and Federal Home funds (O 435-15) . . . . . . . . .
Anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance — expend CDBG funds —
contract with various agencies (O 483-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development programs — enter and amend contracts or memorandums of
understanding — expend funds — Cleveland Metroparks — Cleveland Metropolitan
School District — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (GCRTA) (O 436-15) . .
Garden program — non-profit agencies (O 484-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — expend CDBG and Federal Home funds —
contract with various agencies — Grants (O 478-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
May Dugan Multi-Service Center — Bridge Ave., 4115 — PPN: 003-35-029 — lease — The Near
West Side Multi-Service Corporation (Ward 03) (O 565-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Migration Arts Education Projects — providing art and mediation education — Building
Bridges Collaborative Inc., — agreement (Ward 03CRF) (O 540-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Pleasant Historical Markers Project — provide public art with historical content —
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation — agreement — Health Department
(Ward 02 CRF) (O 559-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Storefront Renovation and Commercial Revitalization Program — rebate and grant / loan
agreements (O 479-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 671
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Community Development Block Grant Program
Administrative expenses — appropriate CDBG and Federal Home funds (O 435-15) . . . . . . . . . .
Anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance — expend CDBG funds —
contract with various agencies — Community Development Department (O 483-15) . . . . . .
Community Development programs — enter and amend contracts or memorandums of
understanding — expend funds — Cleveland Metroparks — Cleveland Metropolitan
School District — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (GCRTA) (O 436-15) . . .
Garden program — non-profit agencies (O 484-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — expend CDBG and Federal Home funds — contract
with various agencies — Community Development Department — Grants (O 478-15) . . . . .
Storefront Renovation and Commercial Revitalization Program — rebate and grant
/ loan agreements — Community Development Department (O 479-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Condolences
Douglass, Grace Mildred Butler (R 590-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
Patton, Mildred Onedia (R 588-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
Wheeler, Sharron Elaine (R 589-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Congratulations
Berry, Patrol Officer Kevin — Badge #209 (R 593-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
Farina, John (R 591-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
Gabrenya, Josephine & Anthony — 75th Wedding Anniversary (R 592-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Contracts
Administration of Family and Medical Leave Act benefits for City employees — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 489-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Air Quality Division operation — financial assistance — Air Quality Division — Grants —
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) (O 563-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Al’s Deli Project — job creation — Alphonso Mitchum — agreement — Economic Development
(Ward 09 CRF) (O 541-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program — administer, implement and manage —
renew Contract No.PS 2012-145 — Youth Opportunities Unlimited, Inc. — Port Control
Department (O 583-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development programs — enter and amend contracts or memorandums of
understanding — expend funds — Cleveland Metroparks — Cleveland Metropolitan
School District — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (GCRTA) (O 436-15) . . . .
Copiers, Group I, II, III — Meritech, Inc. — amend Contract No. RC 2010-135 —
Finance Department (O 490-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crawford Building Project — Tonda Lanton — job creation — agreement — Economic
Development (Ward 09 CRF) (O 539-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County — agreement — donation of property — West Side Market (O 568-15) . . . . . . .
Deicing chemicals — FAA-approved — Burke Lakefront Airport Division — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport Division (O 580-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Design Primary Road fare and domestic water line improvements — amend Contract No.
PS 2015-14 with Glaus, Pyle, Schomer, Burns and Dehaven — professional services —
amend Ord. No. 744-13 (O 585-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

715

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677

The City Record

50

May 13, 2015

East 29th Street reconstruction — public improvement — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05)
(O 581-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Environmental lead investigations — Ohio Department of Health (O 439-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health and Human Services Community Fair — provide health education and screenings —
Union Miles Development Corporation — agreement — Health Department (Ward
02 CRF) (O 560-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Migration Arts Education Projects — providing art and mediation education — Building
Bridges Collaborative Inc., — agreement — Community Development (Ward 03CRF)
(O 540-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Pleasant Historical Markers Project — provide public art with historical content —
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation — agreement — Community Development —
Health Department (Ward 02 CRF) (O 559-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North and South Marginal Roads (East 9th St. to East 55th St.) — consent and cause payment —
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 488-15) . . . . . . . .
Ohio Department of Health for smoking violation investigations, reimburse (O 438-15) . . . . . . . .
Omni Media Cleveland, Inc. — kiosk flexibility — amend Contract 55936 — City
Planning Commission (O 379-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . . .
Rental of heavy-duty equipment, snow removal equipment and equipment operators — various
divisions — Port Control Department (O 579-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repairing and maintaining runways, taxiways, ramps, roads, and other concrete surfaces —
various divisions — public improvement — Port Control Department (O 582-15) . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles and off-road equipment — amend Ord. No. 752-12 — Motor Vehicles Maintenance
Division — Works Department (O 569-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Work Study Program — Amend Contract # 2014-108 — Saint Martin De Porres High School
(O 544-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Cuyahoga County
Agreement — donation of property — West Side Market (O 568-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 830-14 — Solid Waste Disposal Program — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste
Management District — Health Department (O 445-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Health Emergency Preparedness Grant Program, 2015-17 — Emergency Ebola
Supplemental — Cuyahoga County Board of Health — Grants (O 448-15) . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) Program, (FY 14) — Grants — Safety Department
(O 584-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

Easements
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — Cleveland Water Division Nottingham Water
Treatment Plant — Chardon Rd., 1300 — underground communication lines — Utilities
Department (O 566-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672

Economic Development Department
Al’s Deli Project — job creation — Alphonso Mitchum — agreement (Ward 09 CRF) (O 541-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Crawford Building Project — Tonda Lanton — job creation — agreement (Ward 09 CRF)
(O 539-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709

Fees
Helicopters — enact Sections 489.01 to 489.06, 489.99 — Safety Department (O 564-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 671
Rental of League Park Baseball Field and League Park Visitors Center; Fee — enact Section
131.37 — amend Section 131.35 (Ward 07) (O 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699

Finance Department
Administration of Family and Medical Leave Act benefits for City employees — Human
Resources Department (O 489-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Copiers, Group I, II, III — Meritech, Inc. — amend Contract No. RC 2010-135 (O 490-15) . . . . . . . . .
MCPc, Inc. gift of Cisco Wi-Fi equipment, and licenses (O 567-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Notice of Repeal — Fare Adjustment due to Cost of Gasoline — Commissioner Stephens,
Division of Assessments and Licenses (F 570-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Refunding Bonds — 2008 Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax Bonds — Police and Fire
Pension Fund — Safety Department (O 515-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Opiate Project grant — amend Ord. No. 984-14 (O 562-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — amend various sections — amend Ord. 323-15 — Human Resource
Department (O 491-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Workers’ compensation and actuarial services (O 524-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Fire Division
Refunding Bonds — 2008 Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax Bonds — Police and Fire
Pension Fund — Finance Department — Safety Department (O 515-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

716

May 13, 2015

The City Record

51

Gifts
MCPc, Inc. gift of Cisco Wi-Fi equipment, and licenses (O 567-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673

Grants
Air Quality Division operation — financial assistance — Air Quality Division — Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) (O 563-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 830-14 — Solid Waste Disposal Program — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste
Management District — Health Department (O 445-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cities Readiness Initiative Program, 2015-17 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health —
Ohio Department of Health (O 447-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Office on Minority Health Grant; 2015-17 — Ohio Commission on Minority Health
(O 446-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — expend CDBG and Federal Home funds — contract
with various agencies — Community Development Department (O 478-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Health Emergency Preparedness Grant Program, 2015-17 — Emergency Ebola
Supplemental — Cuyahoga County Board of Health (O 448-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Health Emergency Preparedness Grant Program; 2015-17 — Cuyahoga County Board of
Health — Grants (O 449-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Opiate Project grant — amend Ord. No. 984-14 (O 562-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) Program, (FY 14) — Cuyahoga County — Safety
Department (O 584-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

Health Department
Air Quality Division operation — financial assistance — Air Quality Division — Grants —
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) (O 563-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 830-14 — Solid Waste Disposal Program — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste
Management District (O 445-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cities Readiness Initiative Program, 2015-17 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health — Grants —
Ohio Department of Health (O 447-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Office on Minority Health Grant; 2015-17 — Ohio Commission on Minority Health
(O 446-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Environmental lead investigations — Ohio Department of Health (O 439-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health and Human Services Community Fair — provide health education and screenings —
Union Miles Development Corporation — agreement (Ward 02 CRF) (O 560-15) . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Pleasant Historical Markers Project — provide public art with historical content —
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation — agreement — Community Development
(Ward 02 CRF) (O 559-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Department of Health for smoking violation investigations, reimburse (O 438-15) . . . . . . . .
Public Health Emergency Preparedness Grant Program, 2015-17 — Emergency Ebola
Supplemental — Cuyahoga County Board of Health — Grants (O 448-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Health Emergency Preparedness Grant Program; 2015-17 — Cuyahoga County Board of
Health — Grants (O 449-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

House Bill
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Human Resources Department
Administration of Family and Medical Leave Act benefits for City employees — Finance
Department (O 489-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
Salary and wage schedules — amend various sections — amend Ord. 323-15 — Finance
Department (O 491-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

League Park Center
Rental of League Park Baseball Field and League Park Visitors Center; Fee — enact Section
131.37 — amend Section 131.35 (Ward 07) (O 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699

Leases
May Dugan Multi-Service Center — Bridge Ave., 4115 — PPN: 003-35-029 — The Near West Side
Multi-Service Corporation — Community Development Department (Ward 03) (O 565-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 671

Liquor Permits
East 21st St., 1417-1423 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 07) (R 536-15) . . . .
Euclid Ave., 530 — transfer of location application (Ward 03) (F 586-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Ave., 2999 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 07) (F 571-15) . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 75 (Suite B-100) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 542-15)
St. Clair Ave., 10929 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 10) (R 534-15) . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5510 — new application (Ward 07) (F 572-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

717

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

698
669
669
699
698
669

The City Record

52

May 13, 2015

St. Clair Ave., 6718 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 361-15 (Ward 07)
(R 543-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
St. Clair Ave., 7513 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 10) (R 533-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Superior Ave., 3700 (#E) — objection to issuance (Ward 07) (R 535-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Ohio Department Of Public Health
Cities Readiness Initiative Program, 2015-17 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health — Grants
(O 447-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
Environmental lead investigations (O 439-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
Ohio Department of Health for smoking violation investigations, reimburse (O 438-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
North and South Marginal Roads (East 9th St. to East 55th St.) — consent and cause payment —
Capital Projects Office (O 488-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA)
Air Quality Division operation — financial assistance — Air Quality Division —
Grants (O 563-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670

Permits
Apostolic Faith Tabernacle, City of Hope Ministries — East 105th St. & Columbia Ave. —
banner — May 13 to June 12 — Friends & Family Weekend on June 12th — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 574-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Triathlon — July 26th — Pacific Sports LLC. (Ward 03, 15) (O 575-15). . . . . . . . . . . .
Gold Jacket 5K — June 7th — Pro Football Hall of Fame (Ward 03) (O 576-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ride of Silence — May 20th — Bike Cleveland (Ward 03) (O 537-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — May 13 to June 12 — banner — Welcoming the
community — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 573-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure — September 12th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(Ward 03) (O 577-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

679
679
680
709

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680

Police Division
Refunding Bonds — 2008 Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax Bonds — Police and Fire
Pension Fund — Finance Department — Safety Department (O 515-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Port Control Department
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program — administer, implement and manage —
renew Contract No.PS 2012-145 — Youth Opportunities Unlimited, Inc. (O 583-15) . . . . . . . . .
Deicing chemicals — FAA-approved — Burke Lakefront Airport Division — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport Division (O 580-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Design Primary Road fare and domestic water line improvements — amend Contract No.
PS 2015-14 with Glaus, Pyle, Schomer, Burns and Dehaven — professional services —
amend Ord. No. 744-13 (O 585-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rental of heavy-duty equipment, snow removal equipment and equipment operators — various
divisions — contracts (O 579-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repairing and maintaining runways, taxiways, ramps, roads, and other concrete surfaces —
various divisions — public improvement contracts (O 582-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

Professional Services
Administration of Family and Medical Leave Act benefits for City employees — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 489-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Design Primary Road fare and domestic water line improvements — amend Contract No.
PS 2015-14 with Glaus, Pyle, Schomer, Burns and Dehaven — amend Ord. No. 744-13
(O 585-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 29th Street reconstruction — public improvement contracts — Capital Projects Office
(Ward 05) (O 581-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Workers’ compensation and actuarial services (O 524-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Public Hearing (Notices)
Clark Ave. (between W. 56th St. and W. 41st St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1434-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Lake Ave.(west of) Clifton Blvd. — change Use and Area Districts — City Planning Commission
(Ward 15) (O 998-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Lake Avenue north of Franklin Ave. (between W. 75th St. and W. 85th St.) — change
Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 398-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

718

May 13, 2015

The City Record

53

Public Improvements
East 29th Street reconstruction — contracts — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 581-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
Repairing and maintaining runways, taxiways, ramps, roads, and other concrete surfaces —
various divisions — contracts — Port Control Department (O 582-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

Public Works
Vehicles and off-road equipment — amend Ord. No. 752-12 — Motor Vehicles Maintenance
Division (O 569-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673

Purchases and Supplies Division
Cuyahoga County — agreement — donation of property — West Side Market (O 568-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673

Races
Cleveland Triathlon — July 26th — Pacific Sports LLC. (Ward 03, 15) (O 575-15). . . . . . . . . . . .
Gold Jacket 5K — June 7th — Pro Football Hall of Fame (Ward 03) (O 576-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ride of Silence — May 20th — Bike Cleveland (Ward 03) (O 537-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure — September 12th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward
03) (O 577-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680

Recognition
American Lung Association — LUNG FORCE — National Women’s Lung Health Week (R 594-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Resolution of Support
Approving the continuation of the Gordon Square Arts District (SID) — New plan for public
services; provide cleaning and maintenance of the public rights-of-way, additional
security and collective marketing for the District (Ward 15) (R 578-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
Urging the U.S. Department of Homeland Security agents and administration, U.S. Citizen
and Immigration Services, the White House to return Sgt. Elizabeth Perez to her
family in the United States (R 587-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
Urging the U.S. Department of Homeland Security agents and administration, U.S. Citizen
and Immigration Services, the White House to return Sgt. Elizabeth Perez to her
family in the United States (R 587-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678

Safety Department
Helicopters — enact Sections 489.01 to 489.06, 489.99 (O 564-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 671
Refunding Bonds — 2008 Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax Bonds — Police and Fire
Pension Fund — Finance Department (O 515-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) Program, (FY 14) — Cuyahoga County —
Grants (O 584-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676

Salaries
Salary and wage schedules — amend various sections — amend Ord. 323-15 — Finance
Department — Human Resource Department (O 491-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

Senate Bills
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681

Smoking
Ohio Department of Health for smoking violation investigations, reimburse (O 438-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680

Streets — Name
Grovewood Ave. / Lakeshore Blvd. — secondary and honorary designation — Stephen Halton,
Jr. Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 561-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

719

The City Record

54

May 13, 2015

Utilities Department
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — deeds of easements — Cleveland Water Division
Nottingham Water Treatment Plant — Chardon Rd., 1300 — underground
communication lines (O 566-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672

Vehicles
Vehicles and off-road equipment — amend Ord. No. 752-12 — Motor Vehicles Maintenance
Division — Works Department (O 569-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673

Ward 02
Health and Human Services Community Fair — provide health education and screenings — Union
Miles Development Corporation — agreement — Health Department (Ward
02 CRF) (O 560-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
Mt. Pleasant Historical Markers Project — provide public art with historical content —
Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation — agreement — Community Development —
Health Department (Ward 02 CRF) (O 559-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679

Ward 03
American Lung Association — LUNG FORCE — National Women’s Lung Health Week —
Recognition (R 594-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Triathlon — July 26th — Pacific Sports LLC. (Ward 03, 15) (O 575-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 530 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 586-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gold Jacket 5K — June 7th — Pro Football Hall of Fame (O 576-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
May Dugan Multi-Service Center — Bridge Ave., 4115 — PPN: 003-35-029 — lease — The Near
West Side Multi-Service Corporation — Community Development Department (O 565-15) . .
Migration Arts Education Projects — providing art and mediation education — Building
Bridges Collaborative Inc., — agreement — Community Development (Ward 03CRF)
(O 540-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 75 (Suite B-100) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 542-15) . . .
Ride of Silence — May 20th — Bike Cleveland (O 537-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Wendelin Parish — Columbus Ave. — May 13 to June 12 — banner — Welcoming the
community — Capital Projects Office (O 573-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure — September 12th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 577-15) .
Urging the U.S. Department of Homeland Security agents and administration, U.S. Citizen
and Immigration Services, the White House to return Sgt. Elizabeth Perez to her
family in the United States (R 587-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

669
679
669
680

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 671

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678

Ward 05
East 29th Street reconstruction — public improvement contracts — Capital Projects Office
(O 581-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
Wheeler, Sharron Elaine — Condolence (R 589-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Ward 07
East 21st St., 1417-1423 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 536-15) . . . . . .
Patton, Mildred Onedia — Condolence (R 588-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Ave., 2999 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 571-15) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rental of League Park Baseball Field and League Park Visitors Center; Fee — enact Section
131.37 — amend Section 131.35 (O 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5510 — new application — liquor permit (F 572-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6718 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 361-15 — liquor permit
(R 543-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 3700 (#E) — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 535-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Ward 08
Farina, John — Congratulations (R 591-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
Gabrenya, Josephine & Anthony — 75th Wedding Anniversary — Congratulations (R 592-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
Grovewood Ave. / Lakeshore Blvd. — secondary and honorary designation — Stephen Halton,
Jr. Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 561-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Ward 09
Al’s Deli Project — job creation — Alphonso Mitchum — agreement — Economic Development
(Ward 09 CRF) (O 541-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Apostolic Faith Tabernacle, City of Hope Ministries — East 105th St. & Columbia Ave. —
banner — May 13 to June 12 — Friends & Family Weekend on June 12th — Capital
Projects Office (O 574-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
Crawford Building Project — Tonda Lanton — job creation — agreement — Economic
Development (Ward 09 CRF) (O 539-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709

720

May 13, 2015

The City Record

55

Ward 10
Douglass, Grace Mildred Butler — Condolence (R 590-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669
St. Clair Ave., 10929 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 534-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
St. Clair Ave., 7513 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 533-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Ward 11
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709

Ward 12
American Lung Association — LUNG FORCE — National Women’s Lung Health Week —
Recognition (R 594-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Ward 14
Clark Ave. (between W. 56th St. and W. 41st St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1434-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Ward 15
Approving the continuation of the Gordon Square Arts District (SID) — New plan for public
services; provide cleaning and maintenance of the public rights-of-way, additional
security and collective marketing for the District (Ward 15) (R 578-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave. (between W. 56th St. and W. 41st St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1434-13) . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Triathlon — July 26th — Pacific Sports LLC. (Ward 03, 15) (O 575-15). . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Ave.(west of) Clifton Blvd. — change Use and Area Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 998-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Avenue north of Franklin Ave. (between W. 75th St. and W. 85th St.) — change
Use District — City Planning Commission (O 398-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709

Ward 17
Berry, Patrol Officer Kevin — Badge #209 — Congratulations (R 593-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 669

Water Division
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — deeds of easements — Cleveland Water Division
Nottingham Water Treatment Plant — Chardon Rd., 1300 — underground
communication lines — Utilities Department (O 566-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672

West Side Market
Cuyahoga County — agreement — donation of property (O 568-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673

Zoning
Clark Ave. (between W. 56th St. and W. 41st St.) — establish Pedestrian Retail Overlay
(PRO) District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 14 and 15) (O 1434-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Lake Ave.(west of) Clifton Blvd. — change Use and Area Districts — City Planning Commission
(Ward 15) (O 998-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Lake Avenue north of Franklin Ave. (between W. 75th St. and W. 85th St.) — change
Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 398-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

721

