The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

December the Ninth, Two Thousand and Fifteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

24

Board of Control

24

Civil Service

25

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

26

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
26

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

26

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

26

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

26

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

27

Committee Meetings

46

Index

46

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Christopher Diehl, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Fred Szabo, Interim Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – ____________, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – _____________, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – Edward Jamison, Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 14C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge James H. Hewitt, III – Courtroom 12A
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12B
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015

Vol. 102

No. 5322

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Dow (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Kelley, Mitchell.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Mitchell, Kelley, Keane,
Zone.

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2015-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson (CHAIR), Dow (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Kazy, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.

Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Polensek, Pruitt.

Kelley
Keane,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Kazy, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Kazy, Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Kazy, Reed.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1535-15 — Sammy Catania.
Res. No. 1536-15 — Bertram Fleshler.
Res. No. 1542-15 — David Johnson,
Jr.
Res. No. 1543-15 — Edward O’Neill.
Res. No. 1544-15 — Judge John E.
Corrigan.
Res. No. 1545-15 — John P. Mulgrew.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, December 7, 2015
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:12 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Kenneth L. Johnson, Brian
Kazy, Kevin J. Kelley, Martin J.
Keane, Mamie J. Mitchell, Michael
D. Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack
Reed, and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Education Monyka S. Price, Media
Relations Director Dan Williams,
Chief
of
Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Davis, Szabo,
Spronz,
McGrath,
Cox,
O’Leary,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Griffin,
Fumich, Ambroz and Burrows.

TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR),
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.

CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS

Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Rabbi Alan Lettofsky, Beth IsraelWest
Temple,
Cleveland,
Ohio
(Ward 17). Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
K. Johnson, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Zone.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1534-15.
RE: #4124366. New License Application, D5A. IHG Management Maryland LLC, 8614 Euclid Avenue(Ward
6). Received.

1855

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1537-15 — Louis Vertosnik, IV.
Res. No. 1538-15 — Alex Vertosnik.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1539-15 — (ARC) form
LLC Design & Construction (The
Cottages on Thurman).
Res. No. 1540-15 — The Housing
Division of the Cleveland Municipal
Court — 35th Anniversary.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No.
Doggett.

1541-15

—

William

B.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 1514-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Buckeye Partners,
L.P. to encroach into the public rightof-way beneath Independence Road
and
Rockefeller
Avenue
by
installing, using, and maintaining
12.75-inch petroleum pipelines.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Buckeye Partners, L.P., Greenway Plaza, Suite 600, Houston, Texas

4

The City Record

77046 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public right-of-way beneath Independence Road and Rockefeller
Avenue by installing, using, and
maintaining 12.75-inch petroleum
pipelines, at the following locations:

of 298.51 feet to a point on the easterly
right of way line of Independence
Road (60 feet wide) and the point and
place of beginning. Thence along the
centerline of the encroachment the
following one (1) course:

ENCHROACHMENT 1 ALONG
INDEPENDENCE ROAD,
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio. Being part of the original One
Hundred Acre Lots 283, 281, 269, and
268. Two encroachments bounded and
described as follows:
COMMENCING at a found monument at the centerline of Independence Road as depicted on “M-3966
Map of Independence Road” recorded
in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.; Thence on
a bearing of N 09° 03' 53" W a distance of 786.79 feet to a point on the
westerly right of way line of Independence Road (60 feet wide) and the
point and place of beginning.
Thence along the centerline of the
encroachment the following eleven
(11) courses:

Course 1:
Thence N 21° 55' 48" W a distance
of 105.06 feet to the westerly right of
way line of Independence Road (60
feet wide) and the point of termination.
Said point bears N 08° 26' 17" E a
distance of 384.39 feet from said found
monument at the centerline of Independence Road as depicted on “M-3966
Map of Independence Road” recorded
in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.;

Course 1:
Thence N 64° 16' 41" E a distance of
35.89 feet to an angle point;
Course 2:
Thence N 07° 07' 22" W a distance
of 224.10 feet to an angle point;
Course 3:
Thence N 05° 57' 01" E a distance of
25.73 feet to an angle point;
Course 4:
Thence N 03° 52' 16" W a distance
of 427.91 feet to an angle point;
Course 5:
Thence N 41° 07' 44" E a distance of
7.16 feet to an angle point;
Course 6:
Thence N 02° 30' 14" W a distance
of 213.95 feet to an angle point;
Course 7:
Thence N 42° 29' 46" E a distance of
19.63 feet to an angle point;
Course 8:
Thence N 02° 46' 50" W a distance
of 226.56 feet to an angle point;
Course 9:
Thence N 47° 46' 50" W a distance
of 7.07 feet to an angle point;
Course 10:
Thence N 02° 46' 50" W a distance
of 156.42 feet to an angle point;
Course 11:
Thence N 42° 13' 10" E a distance of
14.23 feet to the easterly right of way
line of Independence Road and the
point of termination.
Said point bears S 16° 17' 50" E a
distance of 128.99 feet from a found
monument at the centerline of Independence Road as depicted on “M-3966
Map of Independence Road” recorded
in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.;
ENCROACHMENT 2 ALONG
INDEPENDENCE ROAD,
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
COMMENCING at a found monument at the centerline of Independence Road as depicted on “M-3966
Map of Independence Road” recorded
in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.; Thence on
a bearing of N 18° 41' 14" E a distance

ENCHROACHMENT ALONG
ROCKEFELLER AVENUE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio. Being part of the original One
Hundred Acre Lots 283, 281, 269, and
268. Bounded and described as follows:
COMMENCING at a found monument box at the centerline of Rockefeller Avenue as depicted on “M-3966
Map of lndependence Road” recorded
in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.; Thence on
a bearing of N 49° 31' 46" W a distance of 87.61 feet to a point on the
westerly right of way line of Rockefeller Avenue (66 feet wide) and the
point and place of beginning. Thence
along the centerline of the encroachment the following one (1) course:
Course 1:
Thence N 62° 35' 58" E a distance of
66.00 feet to the easterly right of way
line of Rockefeller Avenue and the
point of termination.
Said point bears N 05° 16' 19" W a
distance of 87.61 feet from said found
monument box at the centerline of
Rockefeller Avenue as depicted on
“M-3966 Map of Independence Road”
recorded in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.;
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of the
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
That the encroaching structure(s)
permitted by this ordinance shall conform to plans and specifications first
approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required
permits, including but not limited to
Building Permits, before installing
the encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately

1856

December 9, 2015
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 1515-15.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to The Salvation Army
to encroach into the public right-ofway of East 18th Street by installing,
using, and maintaining an ADA ramp
and railing.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to The Salvation Army, 1710
Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio,
44115 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public right-of-way of East 18th
Street by installing, using, and maintaining an ADA ramp and railing, at
the following location:
Being a 21' by 3' 3" ADA Ramp and
Railing located on the west sidewalk
of East 18th Street, at the East 18th
Street entrance to the Zelma George
Family Shelter extending northerly
approximately 21'.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.

December 9, 2015
Ord. No. 1516-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute deeds of easement and various temporary deeds of easement
granting to the Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District certain easement rights in property located in
Otter Park and declaring the easement rights not needed for the City’s
public use to implement NEORSD’s
Project Clean Lake, Green Ambassador – Urban Agriculture Green
Infrastructure Project allowing them
to construct and maintain an outdoor
classroom in Otter Park; accepting
the gift of the improvements; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
a property adoption agreement for the
maintenance.
Whereas,
the
Northeast
Ohio
Regional Sewer District (“NEORSD”)
has requested the Director of Public
Works to convey certain easement
rights and temporary easement rights
in property located in the City’s Otter
Park; and
Whereas, the NEORSD requires the
easement rights in Otter Park to
implement NEORSD’s Project Clean
Lake, Green Ambassador – Urban
Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project allowing them to construct and
maintain an outdoor classroom in
Otter Park for the benefit of the community; and
Whereas, the NEORSD wishes to
begin construction of its Project
Clean Lake, Green Ambassador –
Urban Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project in and around which will
include the construction of an outdoor
classroom in Otter Park; and
Whereas, the outdoor classroom
will be a public space that can educate visitors with or without formal
programming, and will be a benefit to
the community; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
easement interests in the following
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:
PPN 126-31-049
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
9 in the J. E. Latimer Re-Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431 and 432, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
23 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 32 feet
front on the Northerly side of Gill
Avenue S. E. and extending back of
equal width 87.83 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
PPN 126-31-050
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
10 in J. E. Latimer’s Re-Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre

The City Record
Lots Nos. 423 and 431, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 23 of Maps,
Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being 32 feet front on the Northerly side of Gill Avenue, S. E., and
extending back of equal width 87.83
feet deep, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
PPN 126-31-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
11 in J. E. Latimer’s Re-subdivision of
Sub Lots Nos. 135 to 142 inclusive, and
Sub Lots Nos. 169 to 175 inclusive in
Gill, Brainard, Hower and Higbee’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423 to 431, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
23 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 32 feet
front on the Northerly side of Gill
Ave., S. E., and extending back of
equal width 87.83 feet deep, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
PPN 126-31-052
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
12 in Jay E. Latimer’s Re-subdivision
of part of Original One hundred Acre
Lots Nos 423 and 431, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 23 of Maps,
Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being 31.62 feet front on the
Northerly side of Gill Avenue S.E.,
and extending back 87.83 feet deep on
the Westerly line, 87.83 feet deep on
the Easterly line, which is also the
Westerly line of East 83rd Street, (formerly Garretson Avenue), and 31.62
feet wide in the rear, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
temporary easement interests in the
following described properties are
not needed for the City’s public use:
Parcel 1:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 2 in the Latimer Subdivision of part of Original Township Lot
No. 423, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga County Records. Said
Sublot has a frontage of 35 feet on
East 82nd Street, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-005
Parcel 2:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
3 in the J.E. Latimer Re-Subdivision
of Gill-Brainard-Howard and Higbee’s Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423, 424,
431 and 432, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and being
35 feet front on the Easterly side of
East 82nd Street (formerly Chadwick
Street) and extending back of equal
width 126 feet deep, as appears by

1857

5
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-006
Parcel 3:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
4 in J.E. Latimer’s ReAllotment of
Gill, Brainard, Hower and Higbee’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431
and 432, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and being
35 feet front on the Easterly side of
East 82nd Street (formerly Chadwick
Street) and extending back of equal
width 126 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-007
Parcel 4:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub-lot No.
5 in the J.E. Latimer Re-Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 423, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and being
35 feet front on the Easterly side of
East 82nd Street (formerly Chadwick
Street) and extending back of equal
width 126 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-008
Parcel 5:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub-lot No.
6 in the J.E. Latimer Re-Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431 and 432, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
23 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 35 feet
front on the Easterly side of East
82nd Street (formerly Chadwick
Street) and extending back of equal
width 126 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-009
Parcel 6:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being Sub Lot No. 7 in
the J.E. Latimer Re-Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431, 432, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 23 of
Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 35 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 82nd Street
(formerly Chadwick Street), and
extending back of equal width 126
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-010
Parcel 7:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
8 in J. E. Latimer’s Re-Allotment of
Sub Lots Nos. 135 to 142 inclusive, and
Sub Lots Nos. 169 to 175 both inclusive,
in Gill, Brainard, Hower and Higbee’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431
and 432, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and being

6
35 feet front on the Easterly side of
East 82nd Street (formerly Chadwick
Street) and extending back of equal
width 126 feet deep running along the
Northerly line of Gill Avenue, S.E., as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
PPN: 126-31-011
Section 3. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the abovedescribed non-exclusive easement
interests and the exclusive temporary
easements to the NEORSD at a price
of $1.00 and other valuable consideration, which is determined to be fair
market value.
Section 4. That the purpose of the
easements shall be to implement
NEORSD’s Project Clean Lake, Green
Ambassador – Urban Agriculture
Green Infrastructure Project allowing them to construct and maintain an
outdoor classroom in Otter Park for
the benefit of the community.
Section 5. That the duration of the
easements shall be perpetual; that the
duration of the temporary easements
shall be until construction of the outdoor classroom is completed; that the
easements and temporary easements
may include reasonable right of entry
rights to the City; that the easements
and temporary easements shall not be
assignable without the consent of the
Director of Public Works; that the
easements and temporary easements
shall require that the NEORSD provide reasonable insurance, and pay
any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 6. That the conveyances
referred to above shall be made by
official deeds of easement and official deeds of temporary easement prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Works
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The deeds of easement and the deeds
of temporary easement shall contain
any additional terms and conditions
as are required to protect the interest
of the City. The Directors of Public

The City Record
Works and Law are authorized to execute any other documents, including
without limitation, contracts for right
of entry, as may be necessary to effect
this ordinance.
Section 7. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 and Section
133.24 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into a property adoption agreement
with the NEORSD to construct an outdoor classroom at Otter Park and to
maintain the improvements all in connection with their Project Clean
Lake, Green Ambassador – Urban
Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project.
The
NEORSD
may
make
improvements to the adopted property, which improvements may include
but not be limited to, construction of
stone benches, signage, functional
exhibits, and other amenities needed
to implement NEORSD’s Project
Clean Lake, Green Ambassador –
Urban Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project. The NEORSD shall
maintain the adopted property during
the term of the property adoption.
Section 8. That this property adoption shall not be construed as a conveyance of any right, title, or interest
in public property, but is the grant of
a privilege revocable at the will of
Council.
Section 9. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to accept the
gift of any improvements, maintenance, and other related benefits
made to the adopted property.
Section 10. That the property adoption agreement shall be prepared by
the Director of Law.
Section 11 That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,

December 9, 2015
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 1517-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 736-01,
passed June 11, 2001, relating to
granting
an
easement
to
F.C.
Southridge Corp. for property located
under the West 3rd Street ramp.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 736-01, passed June 11, 2001,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be for ten (10) years,
with one option exercisable by the
Director of Public Service, to renew
for an additional ten-year term, and
cancellable upon thirty days written
notice by said Director; that the easement shall include reasonable rights
of entry to the City; that the easement
shall not be assignable without the
consent of the appropriate City official; that the easement shall require
the grantee to indemnify the City; provide reasonable insurance; maintain
any grantee improvements located
within the easement; and pay any
applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 2. That existing Section 4 of
Ordinance No. 736-01, passed June 11,
2001, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Committees
on Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.

Ord. No. 1518-15.
By Council Members Mitchell, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing Agreement with First Interstate Properties, Ltd., or their designee, to provide financial assistance
toward tenant improvements at 10730 Euclid Avenue in conjunction with the One University Circle project; to provide for payments to the Cleveland City School District; and to declare certain improvements to real property to
be a public purpose.
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, improvements to real property may be declared to be a
public purpose where fee title to the real property was, at one time, held by the City of Cleveland and the real
property is then leased or conveyed by the City; and
Whereas, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1468-15, and prior to the adoption of this ordinance, the City
approved and completed both the acquisition and conveyance of fee title to Parcels A and B as described in Ordinance No. 1468-15; and
Whereas, the real property to be developed under this ordinance and in accordance with the Cleveland 2020
Citywide Plan is Parcel A of Ordinance No. 1468-15 (“Real Property”), which proposes the redevelopment of surface parking lots and vacant buildings to multi-story, mixed-use developments, a copy of which is placed in File
No. 1518-15-A; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code , the improvements declared to be a public purpose may
be exempt from real property taxation; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, the owners of the improvements may be required to make
annual service payments in lieu of taxes that would have been paid had the improvement not been exempt; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, the exemption may exceed 75% of the improvements for
up to 30 years when a portion of the service payments so collected are distributed to the Cleveland City School
District (“District”) in an amount equal to the amount the District would have received had the improvement not
been exempt; and
Whereas, the District has been notified of the intent to enter into the agreement authorized by this ordinance
in compliance with Sections 5709.41(C)(4) and 5709.83 of the Revised Code; and

1858

December 9, 2015

The City Record

7

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the improvements to be constructed to Parcel A of Ordinance No. 1468-15 (“Improvements”) by
First Interstate Properties, Ltd, or their designee, (“Redeveloper”), as more fully described below, are declared to
be a public purpose for purposes of Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code.
Section 2. That one hundred percent (100%) of the Improvements are declared exempt from real property taxation for a period of 30 years; and that in no event shall the exemption period extend beyond 2048. The terms
of the agreement are as follows:
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Project Type:
Project Name:
Developer:
Project Address:
Ward:
City Assistance:
Project Site:

Tax Increment Financing
One University Circle
First Interstate Properties, Ltd or designee
10730 Euclid Avenue
Ward 6, Councilperson Mamie Mitchell
Non-school TIF

Project Description
First Interstate Properties (principal Mitch Schnieder) is partnering with Petros Development Corporation (principal Sam Petros) and is proposing a $110 Million Market Rate Residential Rental Project in the University Circle. The location is a 1.3 acre site that was formerly the Howard Johnsons. The Cleveland Children’s Museum
was leasing the space but is moving to a temporary location in January as they prepare their new location
(Stager Beckwith Mansion).
The building will be 20-stories, which will include a four-story parking garage podium and a 16-story residential tower, essentially matching the height of the neighboring Walker Building (approximately 215 feet in height).
The overall project includes 280 rental residential units and the average rental unit will be over 1,100 square
feet. The parking garage will house over 300 parking spaces with some being used for drop-off/pick up purposes and visitor parking. The Project will be over 500,000 gross square feet include bistro/market on the ground
floor. The project will also include community rooms, conference and meeting space, a fitness center and a rooftop
park and outdoor grills.
Developer
First Interstate Properties, Ltd. has developed several properties around the Cleveland area that can be considered successful developments. A few of the properties include Steelyard Commons Phase I & II, Legacy Village, Shoreway Commerce Parkway and Avon Commons. All are performing very well, and they all have a reputation of being well-maintained, first class properties. The strong portfolio of successful development projects
speaks well for the Borrower and demonstrates the ability to take on major projects such as this.
Proposed City Assistance: ORC 5709.41 Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Agreement (Non-School)
The request to Cleveland City Council is to authorize the Director of Economic Development to enter into a
non-school Tax Increment Finance (TIF) agreement with First Residential or its designee associated with the
project One University Circle. These TIF funds will be used to pay off debt service associated with the project.
This TIF agreement will be up to 30 years in length. The City will declare certain improvements with respect
to the project to be a public purpose and exempt 100% of the improvements from real property taxes.

1859

The City Record

8

December 9, 2015

Under the agreement, parcels acquired and re-conveyed to the developer will be “TIFed” under section 5709.41
of the Ohio Revised Code in consideration for the developer agreeing to make certain improvements to those
parcels, and agreeing to make payments in lieu of taxes (PILOT) equal to the taxes that would have been paid
for those parcels but for the TIF. A portion of the PILOT will be paid to the Cleveland Municipal School District in the amount the District would have otherwise received but for the TIF. The Borrower will be responsible for any shortfall of PILOT payments for project costs.
This piece of legislation is required by Cleveland City Council for approval of the TIF Agreement.
Economic Impact
• 10 FTE ($400,000 annual salaries)
• 200 estimated construction jobs (payroll estimated $94 Million)
• $490,000 City Income tax generated from estimated residents; additional $8,000 from new employees
• Once stabilized, the project is expected to generate approximately $850,000 in parking, income, and residence
taxes for the City and $1.31 Million in property taxes for the School District annually.
• Over the 30-year term of the TIF, the project is expected to generate approximately $19.5 Million in property taxes for the School District, and $26 Million in parking, income, and residence taxes for the City.
City Requirements:
• The project is subject to Fannie M Lewis Cleveland Residential Employment Law.
• The project is subject to MBE/FBE/CSB
• The project is subject to a Workforce Development Agreement for all new jobs.
Section 3. That, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, Redeveloper (or the owners of the Improvements)
shall make service payments for a period of 30 years in lieu of the exempt taxes to the Cuyahoga County Treasurer; the payments shall be charged and collected in the same manner, and shall be in an amount not less than
the taxes that would have been paid had the Improvements not been exempt from taxation.
Section 4. That a portion of the service payments collected under Section 3 of this ordinance shall be distributed by the Cuyahoga County Treasurer to the Treasurer of the District in the amount of the taxes that would
have been payable to the District had the Improvement not been exempt from taxation.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement or agreements
with Redeveloper to provide for the exemption and service payments described in this ordinance, including agreements securing the payments described in this ordinance, which agreement or agreements shall contain those
terms contained in the executive summary which has been placed in the file mentioned above.
Section 6. That under Section 5709.43 of the Revised Code, there is established a an Urban Redevelopment Tax
Increment Equivalent Fund into which shall be deposited service Payments in Lieu of Taxes (“PILOTS”) which
shall be used for the purpose of funding project debt or for other economic development purposes as determined
by the Director of Economic Development.
Section 7. That it is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to
the passage of this ordinance were adopted in open meetings of this Council, and any of its committees that
resulted in formal action were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 8. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.

Ord. No. 1528-15.
By Council Members Conwell, Zone
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 392.01 to 392.08 and 392.99 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended and enacted
by various ordinances; to supplement
the codified ordinances by enacting
new Section 392.021, relating to smoke
detectors, smoke alarms, and carbon
monoxide alarms; and to change the
name of Chapter 392 to Smoke Detectors, Smoke Alarms, and Carbon
Monoxide Alarms.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:

Sections 392.01 and 392.02, as
amended by Ordinance No. 903-90,
passed June 18, 1990,
Section 392.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 489-93, passed June 14, 1993,
Section 392.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 903-90, passed June 18, 1990,
Section 392.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 1594-89, passed October 16,
1989,
Section 392.06 and 392.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 489-93, passed
June 14, 1993,
Section 392.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 496-93, passed March 8, 1993,
and
Section 392.99, as amended by Ordinance No. 489-93, passed June 14, 1993,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 392.01 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
(a) “Carbon monoxide alarm”
means an approved device which
detects the invisible gas known as

1860

carbon monoxide and which emits an
audible signal indicating the presence of unhealthy or lethal levels of
carbon monoxide, or both an audible
and a visual signal indicating the
presence of unhealthy or lethal levels
of carbon monoxide.
(b) “Hearing impaired” means a
hearing problem impairing the ability to be awakened by a standard
smoke detector or carbon monoxide
alarm whether or not wearing a hearing aid.
(c) “Multiple-station smoke alarm”
means two or more single-station
alarm devices that are capable of
interconnection such that actuation
of one causes the appropriate alarm
signal to operate in all interconnected
alarms.
(d) “Occupant” means a person over
one (1) year of age, living, sleeping,
cooking or eating in, or having actual
possession of a dwelling unit or room
used for room occupancy.

December 9, 2015
(e) “Owner” means the owner or
owners of the premises, a vendee in
possession, a mortgagee or receiver
in possession, a lessee or joint lessees
of the whole thereof, or an agent as
any other person, firm or corporation
directly in control of the premises or
having a legal or equitable interest in
the property.
(f) “Single-station smoke alarm”
means an assembly incorporating the
detector, the control equipment and
the alarm-sounding device in one
unit, operated from a power supply
either in the unit or obtained at the
point of installation.
(g) “Sleeping area” means an area
of a dwelling containing bedrooms
which are separated from each other
by no use area other than a bathroom.
(i) “Smoke alarm” means a singleor multiple-station alarm responsive
to smoke.
(j) “Smoke detector” means a listed
device that senses visible or invisible
particles of combustion.
Section 392.02 Smoke Detection and
Alarm
Systems
Installation
Required
(a) The Ohio Fire Code at OAC
1301:7-7-09 “Fire Protection Systems”
effective, November 10, 2011, and as
amended, is adopted and incorporated
by the City of Cleveland as if fully set
out in this section. Owners of each
new and existing building or structure shall install smoke alarms and
smoke detectors as required by OAC
1301:7-7-09.
(b) That any battery-operated
smoke detector or smoke alarm that is
replaced with a battery-operated
smoke detector or smoke alarm shall
be replaced with a smoke-detector or
smoke alarm that is equipped with a
sealed, tamper-proof battery with a
service life of not less than ten (10)
years.
(c) That existing battery operated
smoke detectors or smoke alarms
shall be removed from service and
replaced when they have been in service for a period of ten (10) years.
Section 392.03 Testing, Inspection,
and Notification
(a) Testing and inspection of
smoke alarms, smoke detectors, and
carbon monoxide alarms in each
dwelling unit shall be performed by
the occupant not less than once a
week. The owner shall provide the
occupant with printed information as
to proper testing of smoke alarms,
smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide alarms within the dwelling unit.
If testing or inspection by an occupant reveals that a smoke alarm,
smoke detector, or carbon monoxide
alarm is not in proper working condition, the occupant shall notify the
owner in writing that it is in need of
maintenance by the owner to restore
it to proper working condition or
replacement as required under this
chapter.
(b) At every change of occupancy
of each dwelling unit occasioned by
or incidental to a sale, lease or sublease of the dwelling, it shall also be
the duty of the owner to inspect the
smoke alarms, smoke detectors, and
carbon monoxide alarms to ensure
they are in proper working condition
as required by this chapter. This section shall not be construed to vitiate
or render void any contract, lease or
sublease. In addition to other requirements of this chapter regarding testing and inspection of smoke alarms,

The City Record
smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide alarms each owner of a dwelling
unit shall inspect and test each smoke
alarm, smoke detector, and carbon
monoxide alarm in the dwelling unit
at least annually to ensure they are in
proper working condition as required
by this chapter.
(c) Nothing in this section regarding testing, inspection and notification shall be construed to relieve the
owner of a dwelling unit of the
requirements under Section 392.02 or
392.021 of this chapter regarding the
proper installation and maintenance
of smoke alarms, smoke detectors,
and carbon monoxide alarms.
Section 392.04 Maintenance
(a) The owner shall repair or
replace the smoke alarm, smoke
detector, or carbon monoxide alarm
as required under this chapter within
seventy-two (72) hours of receipt of
the occupant’s written notice or other
evidence that it is not in proper working condition.
(b) In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, the owner of
each dwelling unit shall, at a minimum, provide new batteries for battery-operated smoke alarms, smoke
detectors, and carbon monoxide
alarms at least annually and at the
beginning of any new lease. It shall
be the responsibility of the occupant
to ensure that the batteries installed
are not removed.
Section 392.05 Tampering
Anyone tampering or interfering
with the effectiveness of a smoke
alarm, smoke detector, or carbon
monoxide detector shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to the
penalties set forth in Section 392.99.
Section 392.06 Enforcement
(a) The City of Cleveland’s Chief of
Fire and the Director of Building and
Housing or their designees shall have
concurrent jurisdiction to conduct
inspections to determine compliance
with this chapter and to enforce its
provisions.
(b) Any notice of violation issued to
enforce the requirements of this chapter shall, at a minimum, require compliance with its provisions within seventy-two (72) hours of the issuance of
the notice. If a notice of violation is
issued for a violation discovered subsequent to a fire or carbon monoxide
gas leak and the dwelling unit was
rendered uninhabitable by the fire or
carbon monoxide gas leak, then the
violation notice shall require compliance with the provisions of this chapter prior to the re-occupancy of the
dwelling unit.
(c) No owner or occupant shall
refuse to allow inspection at reasonable times of any dwelling unit by a
duly authorized City inspector.
(d) The means of enforcement
authorized by this section shall be in
addition to and not in lieu of any other
means of enforcement that may be
authorized by these Codified Ordinances or by statute.
Section 392.07 Smoke Alarm, Smoke
Detector, and Carbon Monoxide
Alarm and Battery Program
(a) This Council determines that a
program to provide smoke alarms,
smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide alarms, and batteries for those
devices free of charge to residents of
the City who report that they cannot
afford them, and to install or arrange

1861

9
for the installation of smoke alarms,
smoke detectors, and/or carbon
monoxide alarms free of charge to
those residents, constitutes a public
purpose. The Fire Chief may conduct
such a program.
(b) The Fire Chief may require any
person who participates in the program authorized by this section to
sign an agreement that may include
the following provisions, and such
other provisions as the Fire Chief
deems necessary:
(1) That each smoke alarm, smoke
detector, and carbon monoxide alarm
provided will be installed in the person’s residence within a reasonable
period of time, to be specified by the
Fire Chief; and
(2) That the person receiving one
or more smoke alarms, smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide alarms
will permit a representative of the
Division of Fire to inspect the installation of the unit or units to confirm
that installation has occurred and
was done properly; and
(3) That the resident participating
in the program will indemnify and
hold harmless the City, its officers,
employees, agents and assigns relative to providing one or more smoke
alarms, smoke detectors, and carbon
monoxide alarms and/or batteries,
and relative to providing assistance
in the installation of the smoke
alarms, smoke detectors, and carbon
monoxide alarms, if applicable.
(c) For residents requiring assistance in installing smoke alarms,
smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide alarms the Fire Chief may
arrange for the installation by personnel of the Division of Fire, other
City personnel, or such other persons
who are willing to provide this service at no cost to the City.
(d) Nothing in this chapter shall be
deemed to waive or otherwise negate
any statutory or common law immunity provided to the City, its officials or
employees for activities under this
chapter.
Section 392.08 Acceptance of Gifts
and Grants of Smoke Alarms, Smoke
Detectors, Carbon Monoxide Detectors, Batteries and Monies for Those
Devices;
Authority
to
Purchase
Smoke Alarms, Smoke Detectors, Carbon Monoxide Detectors and Batteries for Those Devices
The Fire Chief may accept gifts and
grants of smoke alarms, smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide alarms,
and batteries for those devices, and
monies to conduct a program to provide smoke alarms, smoke detectors,
and carbon monoxide alarms and batteries for those devices free of charge
to residents of the City that report
that they cannot afford them, and to
install or arrange for the installation
of smoke alarms, smoke detectors,
and carbon monoxide alarms free of
charge to residents that require such
assistance or to abate a nuisance
under this chapter. The Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into standard purchase or requirement contracts under these Codified
Ordinances
to
purchase
smoke
alarms, smoke detectors, and carbon
monoxide alarms, and batteries for
those devices to conduct the program.
The funding source for such contracts
shall include any monies annually
appropriated for this purpose, any
monies accepted pursuant to this
chapter, which are appropriated for
this purpose, and block grant and
other grant monies as available.

10
Section 392.99 Penalty
(a) Anyone who violates any of the
provisions of Sections 392.02, 392.021,
392.03, 392.04, or 392.05 shall be guilty
of a minor misdemeanor on the first
offense. In addition to any other
method of enforcement provided for
in these Codified Ordinances, the
above listed minor misdemeanors
may be enforced by the issuance of a
citation in compliance with Rule 4.1
of the Ohio Rules of Criminal Procedure. For a second offense such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. On a third or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
Each day of a continuing violation
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter pertaining to
penalties, if a fire or carbon monoxide
gas leak occurs at a dwelling unit
where a violation of Section 392.02,
392.021, 392.03, 392.04, or 392.05 has
occurred, then the offender is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree
if the fire or carbon monoxide gas
leak results in bodily injury or death
of any person; or if the fire or carbon
monoxide gas leak does not result in
bodily injury or death of any person,
then the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree if the
offense is the first offense by that person of any of the provisions of this
chapter, or the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree if the
offense is the second or subsequent
offense by that person of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
Section 2. That the following existing sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 392.01 and 392.02, as
amended by Ordinance No. 903-90,
passed June 18, 1990,
Section 392.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 489-93, passed June 14, 1993,
Section 392.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 903-90, passed June 18, 1990,
Section 392.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 1594-89, passed October 16,
1989,
Section 392.06 and 392.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 489-93, passed
June 14, 1993,
Section 392.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 496-93, passed March 8, 1993,
and
Section 392.99, as amended by Ordinance No. 489-93, passed June 14, 1993,
are repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 392.021 to read as follows:
Section 392.021 Carbon Monoxide
Alarms; Installation Required in
Rental Dwelling Units
(a) It shall be the responsibility of
the owner of each new and existing
dwelling unit intended for rental purposes, within which fuel-fired appliances exist, to install a carbon monoxide alarm in each residential dwelling
unit.
(b) The carbon monoxide alarm
shall be installed outside of each separate sleeping area in the immediate
vicinity of the bedrooms in each residential dwelling unit. When sleeping
areas are not fully enclosed or separated from other living areas within a
dwelling unit, the carbon monoxide
alarm shall be installed nearest the
area designated for sleeping, as per
the manufacturer’s specifications.
Alarms shall be clearly audible in all
bedrooms within the sleeping area or
dwelling unit when all intervening
doors are closed.

The City Record
(c) Every carbon monoxide alarm
shall comply with all applicable federal and state regulations and with
Underwriters Laboratories standard
2034, and shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instructions.
(d) Where a dwelling is occupied
by a person who is deaf or hearing
impaired and a written request for the
installation of a carbon monoxide
alarm is received by the owner from
an occupant in the dwelling, a carbon
monoxide alarm shall be installed by
the owner which provides a visual or
vibratile signal sufficient to warn the
deaf or hearing impaired individual
when activated.
(e) Carbon Monoxide alarms in new
construction shall be installed as
required by the Building Code.
Section 4. That the name of the
Chapter 392 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, is
changed to “Smoke Detectors, Smoke
Alarms,
and
Carbon
Monoxide
Alarms.”
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1530-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal to
amend Section 115-2 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland relating to the
Police Review Board.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health or safety in that it must be certified to the
election authorities immediately in
order for the question to appear at a
special election to be held on March
15, 2016, and providing for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland at a special election to be held at the usual places of
voting in the City of Cleveland on
Tuesday, March 15, 2016, of a proposal
to amend the Charter of the City of
Cleveland by amending existing Section 115-2 to read as follows:
§ 115-2 Civilian Police Review
Board
The Civilian Police Review Board
shall consist of nine (9) members who
are representative of the diverse communities within Cleveland. Seven (7)
members shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the Council. Each of the police districts shall
be represented by at least one (1) citizen who resides in that district. The
representatives of the police districts
shall be among the seven (7) members appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the Council. Two (2)
members shall be appointed by Council. At least one member of the Board
shall be between the ages of 21 and 35
at the time of appointment and may
be among the members appointed by
either the Mayor or the Council. Members of the Civilian Police Review

1862

December 9, 2015
Board shall not be current or former
members of the Cleveland Division of
Police. The members of the Civilian
Police Review Board holding the
office as of the effective date of this
section may continue in office for the
remainder of their terms recognizing
that all of the police districts may not
be represented until the service of
those members is completed. The
terms of the two members appointed
by Council shall commence on April 1,
2016. Terms of office for members of
the Police Review Board shall be for
four years. Vacancies shall be filled
in the same manner as original
appointments for the unexpired term.
No member may serve for more than
two four-year terms where the second
term begins less than four years after
the end of the first term. However, a
person may be eligible for appointment four years after the end date of
the second term. Time spent fulfilling
an unexpired term of two years or less
shall not be considered as part of the
two consecutive terms.
The executive head of the police
force may remove any member of the
Board, upon notice and hearing, for
neglect of duty or malfeasance in
office.
Members of the Board shall receive
compensation as may be established
by the Council.
The Board shall designate annually
one member of the Board to serve as
its chair and one member to serve as
its vice chair. No person shall serve
more than two consecutive one-year
terms in each position, but, except as
further provided, may be eligible for
appointment two years after the end
date of the second term. A person may
be eligible to serve in a position for up
to two consecutive one-year terms
consecutive to service in the other
position, but then may not serve in
either position for two years after the
end date of the term for the second
position even if service in the first or
second position was less than two
years.
The Board shall appoint personnel
as its staff as it deems necessary.
Failure of the Council to act on a
mayoral appointment within thirty
(30) days of its submission shall constitute approval of the appointment.
Section 2. That the foregoing proposed amendment to the Charter, on
receiving at least a majority of the
votes cast at the March 15, 2016, special election, shall become effective
immediately on its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of this
Council is authorized to promptly forward a certified copy of this ordinance to the Board of Elections of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall cause
an appropriate notice to be given of
the election to be held on March 15,
2016, on the foregoing amendment to
the Charter of this City and otherwise
to provide for the election in the manner provided by the general laws of
the State of Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to cause the full text of
the proposed amendment to the Charter to be published once a week for
two consecutive weeks in a newspaper published in the City of Cleveland, with the first publication to be
made at least fifteen days prior to the
primary election to be held on March
15, 2016, as provided in Article XVIII,
Section 9 of the Constitution of the
State of Ohio, Section 731.211 of the
Revised Code, and Section 200 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland.

December 9, 2015
Section 6. That the ballot submitting the question of the adoption of
the amendment shall read as follows:
PROPOSED
CHARTER AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.
Shall Charter Section 115-2 regarding the Police Review Board be
amended to change the name to Civilian Police Review Board; to increase
the size of the Board from seven to
nine members; to have Council
appoint two members; to limit the
terms of the members to two four-year
terms within 12 years; to provide that
at least one member of the Board
shall be between the ages of 21 and 35
when appointed; to provide that there
shall be at least one member from
each police district; to have the Board
select the chair and vice-chair; and to
limit the terms of the chair and vice
chair to two consecutive one-year
terms each, with eligibility for either
office again after two years?
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Law; Committees on Safety,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1533-15.
By Council Member Cimperman (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Chapter 3143, Exterior Walls and
Appurtenances, to require inspection
of building facades to protect the public safety and welfare from risk of
injury that may result from the
effects of building deterioration on
exterior facades.
Whereas, due to age, the elements,
lack of maintenance, design or construction errors, or a combination of
these factors, building facades deteriorate over time, posing potential
unsafe conditions that if unaddressed, can jeopardize public safety
and surrounding properties; and
Whereas, several cities, including
Columbus, Pittsburgh, Detroit, Chicago, New York, Boston, Milwaukee,
Philadelphia, and St. Louis, require
building owners to periodically
inspect certain building facades to
help ensure public safety; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland recognizes the need to protect the public
safety and welfare of Cleveland’s citizens and visitors from the risk of
injury that may result from the
effects of building deterioration on
exterior facades by requiring building owners to inspect these facades
periodically and report their findings;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Chapter 3143 as follows:
CHAPTER 3143, EXTERIOR
WALLS AND APPURTENANCES
Section 3143.01 Definitions
(a) “Substantial Structure” means
any structure of any construction

The City Record
type or use that is five (5) stories or
seventy-five (75) feet about grade,
whichever is shorter, at any point
along its perimeter.
(b) “Protected distance” means the
horizontal distance measured perpendicular from any substantial structure to a public way, public land,
other structure or adjoining property.
(c) “Qualified inspector” means
either of the following: A design professional certified in the subject elements and licensed by the State of
Ohio, or a special inspector or inspection agency accredited and experienced in the specific structure being
inspected. Proof of accreditation or
licensing is required as is required by
the Ohio Building Code for Special
Inspectors.
Section 3143.02 Inspection and
Reporting Requirements for Exterior
Walls and Appurtenances
In order to maintain a building’s
exterior walls and appurtenances in a
safe condition, the following requirements shall apply to all buildings that
are at least five stories or seventyfive (75) feet in height, whichever is
shorter, have a protected distance
that is equal to or less than the height
of the substantial structure from its
tallest height above grade, and are
thirty (30) years or older. This section
shall not apply to one-, two- or threefamily residential buildings:
(a) Inspection Requirements. The
owner of a substantial structure shall
conduct a critical inspection of the
condition of exterior walls and appurtenances at least once every five
years.
(1) Such inspection shall be conducted and witnessed by a special
inspector, by or on behalf of the
owner of the building. Such inspection shall meet or exceed the ASTM
Standards for Periodic Inspection of
Building Facades for Unsafe Conditions contained in Designation E 227005.
(2) All inspections made prior to
the adoption of this Chapter shall continue on their previous schedule at
five year intervals. All new inspections and reports shall be completed
within one year of the adoption of this
Chapter, and successive inspections
and reports shall be completed every
five years from the date of the original inspection report filed in accordance with division (b).
(b) Inspection Report. The owner
of a substantial structure shall register with the Director of Building and
Housing by submitting a written
report, prepared by a qualified inspector who conducted or supervised the
inspection, as follows:
(1) Such report shall clearly document the condition of the exterior
walls and appurtenances as either
safe, unsafe or safe with a repair and
maintenance program. The report
shall document all significant deterioration, unsafe conditions, and movement observed, in sufficient detail so
that a comparison of successive
reports will indicate any change of
condition. Such report must be signed
by and bear the professional seal of
the qualified inspector.
(2) Such report shall be filed with
the Director of Building and Housing
together with a fee, in an amount to
be determined by the Director, within
the time specified in division (a)(2).
(3) Such report shall include the following:
i. The location of the building by
address and permanent parcel number;

1863

11
ii. The year the building was built;
iii. The date the building was
inspected;
iv. The name, address, and title of
the person or firm who conducted the
inspection;
v. Complete description of inspections conducted based on ASTM
E2270-14, including the locations of
and descriptions of detailed inspection areas.
(4) An inspection report shall be
filed with the Director of Building
and Housing every five years from
the date of the original report.
(c) Notice of Unsafe condition.
Upon the discovery of an unsafe condition relating to the exterior walls or
appurtenances, the owner shall notify
the Director of Building and Housing
immediately in writing of such condition, and immediately begin repair,
reinforcement or precautionary measures, with the required permits, to
abate the unsafe condition to ensure
public safety.
Section 3143.03 Certificate of Exterior Walls and Appurtenances Inspection
(a) Issuing of Certificates. The
Director of Building and Housing
shall issue an exterior wall and
appurtenances certificate only after
having receive satisfactory proof of
inspection, and after the inspection
report of the architect or engineer
reports a safe condition. No building
owner subject to the requirements in
this Chapter shall permit the substantial structure to be occupied without
such certificate.
(b) Posting of Certificates. The
owner of a building subject to the
requirements of this Chapter shall
post the required Certificate of Exterior Walls and Appurtenances, suitably framed under glass, conspicuously at all times at the main
entrance of the building. No building
owner subject to the requirements of
this Chapter shall fail to post the
required Certificate.
Section 3143.04 Penalties
In addition to any other method of
enforcement provided for in Chapter
3103, whoever violates any provision
of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day
during which noncompliance or a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. Organizations convicted of an offense shall be fined as
provided by Cleveland Codified Ordinance Sections 601.10 and 601.99.
Section 3143.05 Rules
The Director of Building and Housing shall promulgate any rules as
may be necessary for the purposes of
carrying out the provisions of this
Chapter.
Section 2. That new Chapter 3143
shall take effect sixty days after the
effective date of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.

12

The City Record

December 9, 2015

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 1511-15.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use District of parcels north of Clifton Blvd, south of Lake Avenue between West
117th Street and West 115th Street to Townhouse and local Retail districts, a ‘2’ height district and a ‘K’ area
district as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2529).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of West 117th Street and Lake Avenue;
Thence southerly along the centerline of West 117th Street for a distance of 66.75 ft;
Thence easterly along a line parallel with the centerline of Lake Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 115th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Lake Ave;
Thence westerly along said centerline to the place of origin;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a ‘Townhouse 3’ District, a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height
district.
Section 2. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of West 117th and the westerly prolongation of the northerly line of sublot 7 in
the Cook & Faerber Re-Sub allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 32, Page 18 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Thence northerly a distance of 112.89 ft;
Thence easterly along a line parallel with Lake Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 115th
Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the northerly line
of sublot 12 in the Cook & Faerber Re-Sub allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 32, Page 18 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to the place of origin;
And;
Beginning at the intersection of Clifton Boulevard & West 117th Street;
Thence northerly along the centerline of West 117th street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the northerly line of sublot 7 in the Cook & Faerber Re-Sub allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 32,
Page 18 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said northerly line and its prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West
115th street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Clifton Boulevard;
Thence westerly along said centerline to the place of origin;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a ‘Local Retail’ District , a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height
district.
Section 3. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 through 3 shall be identified as Map Change
No. 2529, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the
Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee in Development Planning and Sustainability.

1864

December 9, 2015
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1512-15.
By Council Members Dow, K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of the
first un-named alley North of Superior
Avenue N.E., East of East 21st Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of the first un-named alley
North of Superior Avenue N.E. , East
of East 21st Street., as described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
First un-named alley North of Superior Avenue N.E., East of East 21st
Street.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
Ten Acre Lots 106,107, 108, 109 and 110
as shown in the O.H. Payne’s Allotment, recorded in Volume 11, Page 51
of the Cuyahoga County Map Records
and further described as follows:
Being all that portion of the first
un-named alley (12.86 feet wide)
North of Superior Avenue N.E (132
feet wide), East of East 21st Street
(66 feet wide) extending from the
East right of way of said East 21st
Street easterly to its terminus.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Res. No. 1513-15.
By Council Members Conwell, K.
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Reserve Court N.E.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Reserve Court N.E., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot 402 further
described as follows:

The City Record
Being all the dedicated portions of
Reserve Court N.E. extending from
the East Right of way of East 105th
Street (width varies) to the West
right of way of Stokes Blvd. (60.00
feet wide) (formerly East 107th
Street).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1519-15.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance to waive
the setting fees at Woodland Cemetery for the George and Julia Hayes
Memorial.
Whereas, George and Julia Hayes
were slaves who escaped north from
their slave plantation in Kentucky in
1854; and
Whereas, with help from the Underground Railroad, George Hayes,
along with a pregnant Julia and their
two daughters reached Ontario by
way of Detroit; and
Whereas, eventually, in about 1900,
George and Julia Hayes settled in
Cleveland, living first on Calvert
Street and later on East 35th Street,
where they remained until their
deaths; and
Whereas, George Hayes died in
1904; Julia Hayes died in 1918; both
were laid to rest in Woodland Cemetery with several of their relatives;
and
Whereas, the Woodland Cemetery
Foundation requests a waiver of the
setting fees for the memorial to this
valiant freedom seeking couple; such
waiver must be granted by legislation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, any and all codified
ordinances to the contrary notwithstanding, this council hereby directs
the Director of Public Works or his
designee to waive the setting fees at
Woodland Cemetery for the George
and Julia Hayes Memorial.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.

1865

13
Ord. No. 1522-15.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Dow.
An emergency ordinance amending
the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1452-15 passed on November
25, 2015 as it pertains to authorizing
the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with the Cleveland
Tenants Organization for the Rental
Information Center and Tenant Advocacy Program through the use of
Ward 7 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1452-15
passed on November 25, 2015 are hereby amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with the Cleveland
Tenants Organization for the Rental
Information Center and Tenant Advocacy Program through the use of
Wards 5 and 7 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement effective January 1, 2016
with the Cleveland Tenants Organization for the Rental Information
Center and Tenant Advocacy Program for the public purpose of providing advocacy and counseling support
for city of Cleveland residents in the
area of housing services through the
use of Wards 5 and 7 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $20,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 2. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1452-15
passed on November 25, 2015 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1523-15.
By Council Members J. Johnson and
Polensek.
An emergency ordinance amending
the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance Number 1415-15 passed November 16, 2015 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with the St. Clair Superior Development Corporation for the
Holiday Food Gift Card Program
through the use of Wards 10 and 8
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

14
Section 1. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1415-15
passed November 16, 2015 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with the St. Clair Superior Development Corporation for the
Holiday Food Gift Card Program
through the use of Wards 10 and 8
Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into an agreement effective November 18, 2015 with the St. Clair Superior
Development Corporation for the Holiday Food Gift Card Program for the
public purpose of providing food gift
cards to needy low to moderate
income residents residing in the city
of Cleveland through the use of
Wards 10 and 8 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $20,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 2. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1415-15
passed November 16, 2015 are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1524-15.
By Council Member Cimperman
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Cleveland Public
Theatre for the Cleveland Public Theatre/Thomas Jefferson International
Newcomers Academy High School
Performance Project through the use
of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective January 1,
2016 with Cleveland Public Theatre
for
the
Cleveland
Public
Theatre/Thomas Jefferson International Newcomers Academy High
School Performance Project for the
public purpose of providing theatrical
educational and training to City of
Cleveland
high
school
students
through the use of Ward 3 casino revenue funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $15,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.

The City Record
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1525-15.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Giving Life Foundation for the Young Achievers
Choice Program through the use of
Ward 8 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective January 1,
2016 with the Giving Life Foundation
for the Young Achievers Choice Program for the public purpose of providing after-school educational and
social activities for City of Cleveland
youths through the use of Ward 8
casino revenue funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $2,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1526-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Monroe Street
Cemetery Foundation for the Monroe
Street Cemetery Project through the
use of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter

1866

December 9, 2015
into agreement with Monroe Street
Cemetery Foundation for the Monroe
Street Cemetery Project for the public
purpose of providing signage to identify persons of historical significance
who interred at this site and other
national landscape features such as
flora for city of Cleveland residents
through the use of Ward 3 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $8,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1527-15.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance amending
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 658-15
passed June 1, 2015 as amended by
Ordinance No. 1132-15, passed September 14, 2015 as it pertains to the Be
Next Awning & Graphics, Inc 50/50
Project through the use of Ward 14
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 658-15 passed June 1, 2015 as
amended by Ordinance No. 1132-15,
passed September 14, 2015 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of the Department of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Aldo
Dure or designee for the Be Next
Awning & Graphics 50/50 Project
located at 3109 West 25th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109 for the public
purpose of exterior improvements for
local business resulting in new job
creation for Cleveland residents
through the use of Ward 14 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 658-15 passed June 1, 2015 as
amended by Ordinance No. 1132-15,
passed September 14, 2015 is hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

December 9, 2015
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1529-15.
By Council Members Reed, Cleveland and Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Seeds of Literacy for
the GED Preparation and Basic Education Program through the use of
Wards 2, 5 and 14 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective January 15,
2016 with Seeds of Literacy for the
GED Preparation and Basic Education Program for the public purpose
of providing GED preparation and
basic educational training to improve
literacy for City of Cleveland residents through the use of Wards 2, 5
and 14 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $15,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1531-15.
By Council Members Cummins,
Cimperman and Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with the International
Community Council – Worldwide
Intercultural Network for the Cleveland Intergroup Relations Project
through the use of Wards 14, 3 and 11
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective December
11, 2015 with the International Community Council – Worldwide Intercultural Network for the Cleveland Intergroup Relations Project for the public
purpose of promoting and improving
multi-cultural,
multi-ethnic,
and
multi-racial
intergroup
relations

The City Record
among the diverse residents residing
in the City of Cleveland through the
use of wards 14, 3 and 11 casino revenue funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $3,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1520-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor
Permit at 10502 St. Clair Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1010-15,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
New C1 Liquor Permit at Rite Aid of
Ohio, Inc., DBA Rite Aid, #2655, 10502
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44108, Permanent Number 74015608135
by Resolution No. 1010-15 adopted by
the Council on August 19, 2015; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Rite Aid of Ohio,
Inc., DBA Rite Aid, #2655, 10502 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 74015608135, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1010-15, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.

1867

15
Res. No. 1521-15.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
16700 Lorain Avenue, 1st and 2nd
floors, w/end.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit from Paddy Rock, Inc.,
16700 Lorain Avenue, 1st and 2nd
floors, w/end, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
Permanent Number 6620022 to Mandd,
LLC, 16700 Lorain Avenue, 1st and 2nd
floors, w/end, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
Permanent Number 5474983; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit from Paddy Rock, Inc.,
16700 Lorain Avenue, 1st and 2nd
floors, w/end, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
Permanent Number 6620022 to Mandd,
LLC, 16700 Lorain Avenue, 1st and 2nd
floors, w/end, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
Permanent Number 5474983; and
requests the Superintendent of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

16
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1532-15.
By Council Members Brady, Pruitt,
Cummins, Zone and Polensek.
An emergency resolution strongly
urging the Plain Dealer and cleveland.com to immediately stop littering public property with the “shopCLE” weekly circular and requesting
that the Plain Dealer begin mailing
the circular to homes in the city of
Cleveland as has been done in Cleveland Heights and Newburgh Heights.
Whereas, the Plain Dealer and
cleveland.com have provided a “weekly circular” of advertisements and
promotions known as “shopCLE”
which is placed in plastic bags and
tossed along this city’s roadways,
sidewalks, driveways and tree lawns;
and
Whereas, the careless tossing of
these flyers violates this City’s littering ordinance, section 613.02 of the
Codified Ordinances; and
Whereas, additionally, the plastic
bags thrown all over our neighborhoods poses serious hazards to
wildlife, human health and the environment; and
Whereas, this Council has received
numerous complaints from our constituents regarding the littering of
neighborhoods with these advertisements encased in plastic bags; and
Whereas, at least two Cleveland
suburbs have complained to the Plain
Dealer and have negotiated that the
flyers will be mailed instead of
dumped onto the public right-of-way;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council strongly urges the Plain Dealer and cleveland.com to immediately stop littering public property with the “shopCLE” weekly circular and requests
that the Plain Dealer begin mailing
the circular to homes in the city of
Cleveland as has been done in Cleveland Heights and Newburgh Heights.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to Plain Dealer
depot manager in charge of shopCLE
distribution Cathy McBride, and
Plain Dealer director of planning and
project management Chris Chimes.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 737-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 607.15 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 474-14,
passed June 2, 2014, to raise the sales
and distribution age from eighteen to
twenty-one years for cigarettes,
tobacco products and alternative nicotine products, including electronic
cigarettes.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
607.15(a), strike division (a)(2) in
its entirety and insert: “ “Child” has
the same meaning as in Revised
Code Section 2151.011”.
2. In Section 1, at amended Section
607.15(a)(4), line 3, after “other
tobacco products,” insert “alternative nicotine products,”.
3. In Section 1, at amended Section
607.15(a)(5), strike division (a)(5)B.
in its entirety and insert “ “Electronic cigarette” does not include
any
item,
product,
or
device
described in division (a)(1)B. of this
section.”.
4. In Section 1, at amended Section
607.15(a), after division (7), insert
the following: “(8) “Young adult”
means a person who is eighteen (18)
years of age or older, but under
twenty-one (21) years of age.”.
5. In Section 1, strike Section
607.15(b) in its entirety and insert:
“(b) No manufacturer, producer,
distributor, wholesaler or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes, and
no agent, employee or representative of a manufacturer, producer,
distributor, wholesaler or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative
nicotine
products,
or
papers used to roll cigarettes, and
no other person shall do any of the
following:
(1) Give, sell or otherwise distribute
cigarettes,
other
tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to any child;
(2) Give, sell or otherwise distribute
cigarettes,
other
tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to any individual who does
not demonstrate, through a driver’s
license or other photographic identification card issued by a government entity or educational institution that the individual is at least
eighteen years of age, unless the
individual reasonably appears to be
at least thirty years of age, provided however, that such appearance
shall not constitute a defense in any
proceeding alleging the sale of cigarettes, tobacco products or electronic cigarettes to an individual
under eighteen years of age;
(3) Sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to any young adult;

1868

December 9, 2015
(4) Sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to any individual who does
not demonstrate, through a driver’s
license or other photographic identification card issued by a government entity or educational institution that the individual is at least
twenty-one years of age, unless the
individual reasonably appears to be
at least thirty years of age, provided however, that such appearance
shall not constitute a defense in any
proceeding alleging the sale of cigarettes, tobacco products or electronic cigarettes to an individual
under twenty-one years of age;
(5) Give away, sell or distribute
cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative
nicotine
products,
or
papers used to roll cigarettes in any
business that does not have posted
in a conspicuous place a sign, in
accordance with rules of the Department of Public Health, stating that
giving, selling or otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or
papers used to roll cigarettes to a
person under twenty-one (21) years
of age is prohibited by law;
(6) Knowingly furnish any false
information regarding the name,
age, or other identification of any
child or young adult with purpose
to obtain cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes for that child or young adult;
(7) Manufacture, sell, or distribute
in this City any pack or other container of cigarettes or alternative
nicotine products containing fewer
than twenty (20) cigarettes or any
package of roll-your-own tobacco
containing less than six-tenths (0.6)
of one (1) ounce of tobacco;
(8) Sell cigarettes or alternative
nicotine products in a smaller quantity than that placed in the pack or
other container by the manufacturer;
(9) Sell other tobacco products in
a smaller quantity than was intended for retail when the product was
packaged by the manufacturer.”.
6. In Section 1, at amended Section
607.15, insert new division (c) to
read as follows:
“(c) No manufacturer, producer,
distributor, wholesaler or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes, and
no agent, employee or representative of a manufacturer, producer,
distributor, wholesaler or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative
nicotine
products,
or
papers used to roll cigarettes, shall
give or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes to any young
adult.”.
7. In Section 1, at amended Section
607.15, reletter existing divisions
(c), (d), (e), (f), and (g), to new
divisions “(d)”, “(e)”, “(f)”, “(g)”,
and “(h)”.
8. In Section 1, at amended Section
607.15, at existing division (c)(2)A.
line 7, after “considered” insert
“located”.
9. In Section 1, at amended Section
607.15, at existing division (e),
strike division (e)(1) in its entirety
and
insert:
“(1)
The
parent,
guardian, or legal custodian of the
child has consented in writing to the
child participating in the research

December 9, 2015
protocol, or the young adult has consented in writing, on his or her own
behalf, to participate in the research
protocol.”.
10. In Section 1, at amended Section 607.15, at existing division
(f)(1), line 1 and in line 5, strike
“division (b)(1), (2), (4), or (5) or
division (c)” and insert “division
(b)(1), (3), (5), (7), (8), or (9) or
divisions (c) or (d)” in both places.
11 In Section 1, at amended Section 607.15(f)(2), in line 1 and in
line 5, strike “division (b)(3)” and
insert “division (b)(6)” in both
places.
12. In Section 1, at amended Section 607.15, at existing division (g),
in line 2, strike “given, sold, or otherwise distributed” and insert “given
or sold”; in line 3, after “this section”
insert “, or distributed to a child in
violation of this section,” and also
in line 3, strike strike “or young
adults”.
13. In Section 3, strike “sixty days”
and insert “one hundred and twenty
(120) days”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
13. Nays 3. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 13.
Nays 3.
Those voting yea: Council Members Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, K.
Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell,
Pruitt, Reed, Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members Brady, Kazy, Polensek.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1167-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
standard and requirement contracts
for the purchase, lease, or lease
with option to purchase, of various
on-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories,
equipment and other aftermarket
items necessary to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended
purposes, including vehicle rehabilitation, training, and inspections, as
needed, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period of one
year.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services
and
Properties,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1231-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to issue a permit to Corning Place
Ohio, LLC to encroach into the public right-of-way of Vincent Avenue,
N.E. by installing, using, and maintaining a utility vault.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1260-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary to manage the Gateway East
Garage, for a period up to three
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1292-15.
By Council Members Pruitt, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the Bryant Avenue, East 85th Street,
East 150th Street, Rocky River
Drive, West 48th Street, and the
West 134th Street Area Sewer Projects, including but not limited to
manholes and catch basins; authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public improvement contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director to employ one or
more professional consultants necessary to design and implement the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Utilities, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1294-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 416-15, passed April 27, 2015,
relating to extendable turret vehicles
for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1320-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-97 with IBM
Corporation to host and administer
the Oracle customer care and billing
system.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance, when amended, as follows:

1869

17
1. In Section 1, line 3, strike
“$960,200” and insert “$961,200”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1321-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-153 with
Kubra Data Transfer Ltd. to design
and distribute utility bills, inserts,
reminders, and delinquent notices,
and to provide various services, for
the Divisions of Water and Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1322-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
SourceLink, Ohio LLC to provide various services relating to the billing
systems for the Divisions of Water
and Cleveland Public Power, for a
period of one year, with a one-year
option to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1325-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of hardware and Cisco equipment, maintenance, and support,
including Smartnet support, needed
to implement an Information Technology infrastructure upgrade for the
various divisions of the Department
of Public Utilities, for a period up to
three years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1338-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 84815, passed July 22, 2015, relating to the
purchase by one or more requirement
contracts of heavy-duty snow removal
equipment, snow removal vehicles,
multi-purpose trucks, and operators

18
when required, for the various divisions of the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In the title, line 4; and in Section 1, at amended Section 1, line 4,
after
“heavy-duty”
insert
“equipment,”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1351-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 226-15, passed April 13, 2015, to
supplement the ordinance by adding
new Sections 3 and 4; and to renumber
existing Sections 2, 3, and 4 to new
Sections 5, 6, and 7, relating to parking revenue control equipment and
software with reporting features for
the Willard Park Garage and the East
Gateway Garage.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1353-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
apply for and accept a grant from the
St. Luke’s Foundation for the 2015
Boys and Girls Club Grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1355-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio to encroach into the public
right-of-way of Ontario Street by
installing, using, and maintaining
the following, including but not limited to, frost free slabs and door
swings, foundation footings, metal
cornice overhang, directional monument signs, snow melt system at
entrance, bike racks and canopy overhang.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The City Record

December 9, 2015

Ord. No. 1356-15.
By Council Members Mitchell, K.
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to One UC Partners,
LLC, or its designee, to encroach into
and above the public rights-of-way of
University Circle, Euclid Avenue,
Stearns Road and Deering Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining
building, roadway and streetscape
improvements as part of the One University Circle Luxury Apartments
Project.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 7, after the
word “improvements”, insert “and
crane pad foundation”.
2. In Section 1, at No. 10, after
“improvements” strike “and; at No.
11, at the end, strike the period and
insert “; and”; and insert new No. 12
to read as follows:
“12. Crane pad foundation to be
abandoned after construction.”.
3. In Section 1, strike “Encroachment Area No. 1” and “Encroachment
Area No. 2” in their entirety and
insert the following:
“Encroachment Area No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
402 and being further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the centerline of Euclid Avenue (100
Feet Wide) and the centerline of
Stokes Boulevard (60 Feet Wide);
Thence
North
87°07'57"
East,
along the centerline of said Euclid
Avenue, a distance of 125.78 feet;
Thence South 02°52'03" East, a
distance of 37.46 feet and the principal place of beginning of the parcel herein described:
Course1:
Thence North 87°47'44"
distance of 71.85 feet;

East,

a

Course 2:
Thence North 82°41'54"
distance of 50.83 feet;

East,

a

Course 3:
Thence South 11°12'05"
distance of 13.35 feet;

East,

a

Course 4:
Thence North 74°45'50"
distance of 52.55 feet;

East,

a

Course 5:
Thence North 17°25'09" West, a
distance of 13.24 feet;
Course 6:
Thence North 74°45'51" East, a
distance of 7.42 feet to a point of
curvature (P.C.);
Course 7:
Thence Southeasterly along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the
right, having a length of 40.82 feet,
said arc having a radius of 40.00
feet, a central angle of 58°28'33"
and a chord which bears South
75°59'52" East a distance of 39.08
feet;

1870

Course 8:
Thence South 46°45'36" East, a
distance of 108.81 feet to a point on
the centerline of Stearns Road (60
Feet Wide);
Course 9:
Thence
South
60°12'16"
East,
along the centerline of said Stearns
Road, a distance of 402.93 feet;
Course 10:
Thence South 86°42'44" West, a
distance of 54.96 feet to the intersection of the Southwesterly rightof-way of said Stearns Road and the
Northerly right-of-way of Deering
Avenue (44 Feet Wide);
Course 11:
Thence
North
60°12'16"
West,
along the Southwesterly right-ofway of said Stearns Road, a distance of 311.69 feet to its intersection with the Southerly line of University Circle;
Course 12:
Thence Northwesterly along the
arc of a curve on the Southerly line
of University Circle, deflecting to
the right, having a length of 402.65
feet, said arc having a radius of
200.00 feet and a central angle of
115°21'02" and a chord which bears
North 71°20'17" West a distance of
338.01 feet to the principal place of
beginning and containing 1.1007
Acres (47,947 Square Feet) of land,
according to a survey made by
Thomas J. Neff, Jr. Registered Surveyor No. 7065-0hio in June of 2014.
The basis of bearings for the
premises
surveyed
is
NAD83
(CORS96) Ohio State Plane Coordinate System, North Zone (3401).
Encroachment Area No. 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
402 and being further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southwesterly right-of-way for
Stearns Road (60 Feet Wide) and
the Northerly right-of-way for Deering Avenue (44 Feet Wide);
Thence
South
86°42'44"
West,
along the Northerly right-of-way of
said Deering Avenue, a distance of
174.40 feet and the principal place of
beginning
of
the
parcel
herein
described:
Course 1:
Thence South 03°17'16"
distance of 5.00 feet;

East,

a

Course 2:
Thence South 86°42'44" West, a
distance of 65.12 feet;
Course 3:
Thence North 03°17'16" West, a
distance of 5.00 feet to a point on
the Northerly right-of-way of said
Deering Avenue;
Course 4:
Thence North 86°42'44" East, a
distance of 65.12 feet to the principal place of beginning and containing 0.0075 Acres (326 Square Feet)
of land, according to a survey made
by Thomas J. Neff, Jr. Registered
Surveyor No. 7065-0hio in June of
2014.
The basis of bearings for the
premises
surveyed
is
NAD83

The City Record

December 9, 2015
(CORS96) Ohio State Plane Coordinate System, North Zone (3401).
Be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
Encroachment Area No. 3 Crane Pad
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
402 and being further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southerly line of University Circle and the Southwesterly right-ofway of Stearns Road (60 Feet Wide)
and further known as being the
Northeasterly corner of Parcel A in
the Survey, Consolidation and Partition Plat for One UC Partnership,
LLC as recorded in Volume 382,
Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence Southwesterly, along the
arc of a curve on the Southerly line
of said University Circle, deflecting
to the right, having a length of 13.52
feet. Said arc having a radius of
200.00 feet and a central angle of
03°52'21" and a chord which bears
South 52°55'22" West a distance of
13.52 feet and the principal place of
beginning
of
the
parcel
herein
described:
Course 1:
Thence Southwesterly, continuing
along the arc of a curve on the
Southerly line of said University Circle, deflecting to the right, having
a length of 30.03 feet. Said arc having a radius of 200.00 feet, a central
angle of 08°36'09" and a chord
which bears South 59°09'37" West a
distance of 30.00 feet;
Course 2:
Thence North 31°09'43" West, a
distance of 29.35 feet;
Course 3:
Thence North 58°50'17"
distance of 30.00 feet;

East,

a

Course 4:
Thence South 31°09'43" East, a
distance of 29.52 feet to the principal place of beginning and containing 0.0205 Acres (894 Square Feet)
of land, according to a survey made
by Thomas J. Neff, Jr. Registered
Surveyor No. 7065-Ohio in June of
2014.
The basis of bearings for the
premises
surveyed
is
NAD83
(CORS96) Ohio State Plane Coordinate System, North Zone (3401).
Be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1357-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-096 with
Five Point Partners, LLC nka Ernst &
Young U.S. LLP to provide professional services necessary to manage and

administer the Oracle Customer Care
& Billing System, for the Division of
Water; and to amend the terms of the
contract.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1358-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of rehabilitating automated controls at City water work
plants; authorizing the Director of
Public Utilities to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts to
construct the improvement; and
authorizing the director to employ
one or more professional consultants
necessary to design the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, at the end, strike
the period and insert: “, under contracts executed by December 31,
2018.”.
2. In Section 2, line 1, and in Section 4, line 1, after “That” insert the
following in both places: “, under
contracts executed by December 31,
2018,”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1359-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts with
internet providers to supply the
Department of Port Control buildings
with high-speed digital data access to
the Internet, for a period of one year
with three one-year options to renew,
the second of which is exercisable
through additional legislative authority; and to enter into a non-exclusive
subscriber services agreement with
the selected internet provider.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1360-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Ultimate JetCharters, LLC dba Ultimate Air Shuttle, LLC for the lease of
certain space located in the passenger
terminal building at Burke Lakefront
Airport, for the Department of Port
Control, for a period of one year, with
two one-year options to renew, the
second of which requires additional
legislative authority.

1871

19
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1362-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Eugene Place, N.W.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1363-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Leonard Street.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1364-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of West 24th Street.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1368-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing the
Boosted Third High System in Richfield, Ohio and related site improvements; authorizing the Director of
Public Utilities to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement
and purchase contracts; and authorizing the director to employ one or more
professional consultants to implement the improvement; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire real property
and
easements
needed
for
the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, at the end, strike
the period and insert “; and to apply
for and accept a Water Supply
Revolving Loan Account loan from
the
Ohio
Water
Development
Authority to implement this ordinance.”.

20
2. In Section 2, at the end, insert
the following: “That a copy of the
request for legislation, summarizing
the project, has been placed in File
No. 1369-15-A.”.
3. Insert new Sections 10, 11, and
12 to read as follows:
“Section 10. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
apply for and accept a Water Supply
Revolving
Loan
Account
(“WSRLA”) loan from the Ohio
Water Development Authority in the
approximate amount of $6,000,000 to
provide partial financing for the
Improvement.
Section 11. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into a loan agreement with
the
Ohio
Water
Development
Authority, or other appropriate state
agency, for a WSRLA loan, which
loan agreement shall contain additional terms that are acceptable to
the Director of Law to protect the
public interest. The Director of Public Utilities is further authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the WSRLA Agreement;
and appropriate the loan funds for
the
purposes
set
forth
in
the
WSRLA Agreement.
Section 12. That upon execution of
the WSRLA Agreement, the Director
of Public Utilities is authorized to
repay the loan funds to the WSRLA
in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the WSRLA Agreement, from the operating revenues
of the Division of Water.”.
4. Renumber existing Sections 10
and 11 to new “Section 13” and ”Section 14”.
5. In existing Section 10, line 3,
after “52 SF 245” insert “, from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the loan proceeds received under the
WSRLA
Agreement
authorized
above,”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1403-15.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health for
the 2016-2018 Immunization Action
Plan Program; authorizing the Director to charge and accept fees for this
program; and authorizing one or more
agreements with Medicaid and Medicaid HMOs for the City to receive payments.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1404-15.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Health for the

The City Record
Title X Program; authorizing the
director to charge and accept fees;
entering into one or more agreements
to receive payments from Medicare,
Medicaid and Medicaid HMO programs; employing professional consultants, and authorizing one or more
requirement contracts.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1405-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement for the grinding of
pavement for the local resurfacing of
city streets and authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into one
or more public improvement requirement contracts for the making of the
improvement, for a period up to eighteen months.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1430-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an amendment to the various
requirement contracts with Cleveland
Thermal LLC to change the name of
the franchise ownership from Cleveland Thermal LLC to Corix Infrastructures (US) Inc. or one of its
directly or indirectly held whollyowned subsidiaries.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1431-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Homeland Security for the FY14 Staffing
for Adequate Fire and Emergency
Response (SAFER) Grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1432-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Public Safety for
the FY 2015 Construction Zone Grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.

1872

December 9, 2015
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1433-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Public Safety for
the FY 2016 Impaired Driving
Enforcement Program (IDEP) Grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1434-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Justice
for the FY 2015 Justice and Mental
Health Collaboration Grant; and
authorizing one or more contracts
with Frontline Services to implement
the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1435-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
County Public Safety and Justice Services for the FY2015 Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA) grant for a sexual assault advocate under the Cleveland Domestic Violence Program; and
authorizing a contract with the Cleveland Rape Crisis Center.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1436-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Department of Public Safety for
the FY 2016 Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) Grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1437-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or

December 9, 2015
more contracts with various housing
development
entities,
or
their
designees, to implement the Housing
Trust Fund Program, for costs associated with various housing activities.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1439-15.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Vacant Property Initiative forgivable loan with
Abeona Therapeutics, Inc., or its
designee, and an EDA Title IX loan,
to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the
leasehold improvements and related
soft cost at 6555 Carnegie Road and
the acquisition of machinery and
equipment.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1440-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a forgivable loan
agreement with Empire Paving, Inc.,
or its designee, to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the redevelopment and acquisition of property located at 2910 West
3rd Street.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1441-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Purchase
Agreement and/or Option to Purchase
Agreement with Empire Paving, Inc.,
or its designee, relating to the sale,
remediation, and development of Cityowned property located at 2910 West
3rd Street; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
to convey the properties, which are no
longer needed for the City’s public
use.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1442-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts for the transfer and disposal of tires, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Works, for a
term of two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1444-15.
By Council Members Dow, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1451-14, passed December 8,
2014, relating to an EDI Empowerment Zone Grant to The Beauty
Shoppe.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1445-15.
By Council Members Dow, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Vacant Property Initiative forgivable loan agreement with The Beauty Shoppe LLC, or
its designee, to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance acquisition and/or tenant
build-out of The Beauty Shoppe to be
located at 6815 Euclid Avenue, and
other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the property.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1446-15.
By Council Members Pruitt, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance agreeing
to the adjustment of the municipal
boundary line between the City of
Cleveland and the City of Shaker
Heights in accordance with Section
709.37 of the Revised Code; and authorizing the Mayor to enter into a taxsharing agreement with the City of
Shaker Heights for the purpose of
sharing in tax revenues generated in
the Redevelopment Area located in
and around Van Aken Boulevard, Sutton Road, and Milverton Road for the
purpose of facilitating development
associated with the proposed construction of townhouses in that area,
in accordance with Section 9.482 of
the Revised Code.

1873

21
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1447-15.
By Council Members Keane, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the report of the Assessment Equalization Board on objections concerning estimated assessments with
respect to the formation of the Cleveland Kamm’s Area Special Improvement District and the initial comprehensive services plan for public services and collective marketing for the
District; determining to proceed with
the plan to provide public services
within the District; adopting the
assessments; levying the assessments; and authorizing the Director
of City Planning to enter into an
agreement
with
the
Cleveland
Kamm’s Area Special Improvement
District Corporation.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1448-15.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Dow, K. Johnson, Brancatelli and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for improving East 55th
Street from Broadway Avenue to
Superior Avenue; to apply for and
accept any gifts or grants from any
public or private entity; authorizing
the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into any relative agreements;
and causing payment of the City’s
share to the State for the cost of the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1467-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
temporary appropriations for the
current payrolls and other ordinary
expenses of the City of Cleveland
from the period from January 1, 2016
until the effective date of the annual appropriation ordinance for the
fiscal year ending December 31,
2016.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

22
Ord. No. 1468-15.
By Council Members Mitchell, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire and re-convey
properties presently owned by First
Interstate Properties, Ltd., or its
designee, located at 10730 Euclid
Avenue for the purpose of entering
into the chain-of-title prior to the
adoption of tax increment financing
legislation authorized under Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code; and
authorizing an agreement with First
Interstate Properties, Ltd., or its
designee.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, lines 4 and 5; in Section 1, line 4; and in Section 5, line
2, strike “First Interstate Properties,
Ltd.” and insert “University Circle
Inc.” in all three places.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1474-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Attorney General for the 2015-16
Ohio Drug Use Prevention Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1475-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Homeland Security for the FY 2014 Assistance to Firefighters Grant; and
authorizing the purchase by one or
more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, services, and
training needed to implement the
grant, for the Department of Public
Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1476-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Justice’s
Bureau of Justice Assistance for the
FY 2015 Byrne Justice Assistance
Grant (JAG) Local Solicitation; and

The City Record
authorizing one or more contracts
with Cuyahoga County and the cities
of East Cleveland and Cleveland
Heights needed to implement the
grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1477-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the FY 15 State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant for the
operation of the Northern Ohio Law
Enforcement Task Force (NOLETF);
and authorizing the Director to enter
into agreements with various municipalities or governmental agencies
needed to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1478-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the FY 15 State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG)
for the Northern Ohio Violent Crime
Consortium (NOVCC) Program; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more contracts with Kent State
University to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1479-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
County Public Safety and Justice Services for the FY 2015 Violence
Against Women Act (VAWA) grant
for the Cleveland Domestic Violence
Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1480-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland Police
Patrolmens’
Association,
civilian
personnel; and to amend Section 10
of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed

1874

December 9, 2015
March 30, 2015, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1481-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Stage Employees Local 27
of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees; and to
amend Section 47 of Ordinance No.
323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to compensation for various
classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1482-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 43 of Ordinance No. 323-15,
passed March 30, 2015, as amended,
relating to compensation for various
classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1483-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 131.42 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1521-11,
passed December 5, 2011, relating to
cemetery rates.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1485-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials
needed
to
maintain,
replace, or repair overhead doors, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period of one year, with
two one-year options to renew, the
second of which is exercisable
through additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

December 9, 2015
Ord. No. 1487-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. CT 3001 PS 2013-042 with Vic
Thompson Company, A Texas Corporation to provide professional services for the in-line baggage system
project for the Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1488-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Gateway Huron LLC
to encroach into the public rights-ofway of East 4th Street, Prospect
Avenue, East 6th Street and Huron
Road by installing, using, and maintaining building foundations and
area ways.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1494-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing Agreement with w25d commercial, LLC, or its designee, or others, to provide for redevelopment of
property located at W. 25th Street &
Detroit Ave.; to provide for payments
to the Cleveland City School District;
and to declare certain improvements
to real property to be a public purpose.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 613-15.
By Council Members Polensek, Conwell, J. Johnson and Mitchell.
An emergency resolution supporting University Hospitals’ decision to
open a Level 1 trauma center on the
east side of Cleveland.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the caption, delete everything after “Supporting” and insert:
“high quality trauma care in the
City of Cleveland including the
newly opened University Hospitals
level 1 trauma center and the continuing service of MetroHealth Medical Center’s level 1 trauma center;
and further in support of the recent

The City Record
agreement between the four hospital systems in the area to coordinate
their emergency room and trauma
center practices to give the best and
most immediate care to the people
of Cleveland and Northeast Ohio”.
2. In the 3rd line of first whereas
clause, insert: “much of Cleveland
was without a nearby trauma center”.
3. Insert new second, third, fourth
and fifth whereas clauses:
“Whereas, the level 1 adult trauma center at MetroHealth Medical
Center has for decades given severely injured and ill Cleveland-area residents expert care quickly and efficiently; and
Whereas, on December 1, 2015,
University Hospitals opened a Level
1 trauma center at its location at
11100 Euclid Avenue; and
Whereas, the Chief Medical Officers of the Cleveland Clinic, MetroHealth Medical Center, St. Vincent
Charity Medical Center and University Hospitals have reached an
unprecedented agreement to coordinate an immediate reduction in
patient diversions and pledge to go
to zero diversions by February, 2016;
and
Whereas,
these
four
hospitals
have also agreed to reform the
Northern
Ohio
Trauma
System
(NOTS) to include University Hospitals; NOTS will continue coordinating with Cleveland Emergency
Medical Services; and”.
4. In Section 1, after “That this
Council supports” insert: “high quality trauma care in the City of Cleveland including the newly opened
University Hospitals level 1 trauma
center and the continuing service of
MetroHealth Medical Center’s level 1
trauma center; and further supports
the recent agreement between the
four hospital systems in the area to
coordinate their emergency room
and trauma center practices to give
the best and most immediate care to
the people of Cleveland and Northeast Ohio”.
5. In Section 2, after “That the
Clerk of Council is hereby directed
to transmit copies of this resolution
to the”, insert: “Chief Medical Officers of the Cleveland Clinic, MetroHealth Medical Center, St. Vincent
Charity Medical Center and University Hospitals”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final adoption.
Res. No. 669-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution declaring
that the City of Cleveland will strive
for a tobacco free workforce by January 2017, and establishing a working
group of Council, the Jackson Administration, and community stakeholders to study employment policies of
hiring only tobacco-free employees
and offering smoking cessation programs to current employees.
Approved by Director of Law;
Adoption recommended by Committees on Health and Human Services,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 4, 5, and
6 in their entirety and insert “and
establishing a working group to
study employment policies of”.
2. In the fifth whereas clause,
strike line 3 in its entirety and

1875

23
insert: “Council, Healthy Cleveland
Clean Air Committee, one representative selected from union leadership from the largest non-public
safety union that represents City of
Cleveland employees, and two City
of Cleveland residents appointed by
Cleveland City Council, and a representative from Cleveland Clinic, a
representative from Metro Health
System, a representative from St.
Vincent Charity Hospital, and a representative from University Hospital
to serve in an advisory capacity to
the working group to study and consider implementing”; and in line 5,
after
“current
employees”
insert
“and shall report quarterly to the
Health and Human Services Committee:.
3. In Section 1, line 2, strike “2016”
and insert “2017” and after “Council”
strike the comma and insert “. The
Council will invite”; and in line 3,
after “Administration”, strike the
comma.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 2. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 14.
Nays 2.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final adoption.
Those voting yea: Council Members Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, K.
Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members Brady, Kazy.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1303-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 535.04, 535.05, and 535.06 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, 1976, as amended by various
ordinances, relating to water rates,
affordability charges, and fees and
charges for the Division of Water.
Read third time in full. Passed
Yeas 12, Nays 4.
Those voting yea: Council Members Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Polensek,
Pruitt, Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Kazy, Reed.
MOTION
On the motion of Council
K. Johnson, the absence of
Member Jeffrey D. Johnson
by authorized. Seconded by
Member Zone.

Member
Council
is hereCouncil

MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
the call of the chair. The next scheduled Council meeting is at 8:26 p.m.
on Monday, January 11, 2016, at 7:00
p.m. in the Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The City Record

24
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
December 2, 2015
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, December 2,
2015 at 10:32 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Savas, Barnette, Interim Director
Walker-Minor,
Director
McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Tiffany White, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
Michael Curry, Office of Equal
Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 476-15.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, and Resolution
No. 921-52, adopted by the Board of
Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of September, 2015 in the amount of
$7,425.32, approved and ordered filed.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Savas, Barnette, Interim Director
Walker-Minor,
Director
McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 477-15.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Harris, Mackessy & Brennan, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of Kodak
Ngenuity
9090DC
scanners
with
front and rear imprinter kits and a
1 year extended warranty, all items
for the Department of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Clerk of Courts, received on November 4, 2015 under the authority of
Section 181.101, Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $74,992.96 (Net), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal
Clerk
of
Courts,
is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent

delivery orders separately certified
against the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Savas, Barnette, Interim Director
Walker-Minor,
Director
McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 478-15.
By Director Davis.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 984-07, passed by the
City of Cleveland Council on August
8, 2007, the City of Cleveland,
through the Director of Public Utilities, entered into City Contract No.
67844 with Ventyx, Inc. for professional services necessary to maintain the Ventyx Customer Suite, Service Suite and Asset Suite software,
including new releases, patches and
fixes, technical support and product
research and improvement, for two
one-year terms, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities and under the
authority of Section 181.102 C.O., the
City entered into consecutive agreements with Ventyx, Inc. to obtain
maintenance and technical support
services for the Ventyx Customer
Suite, Service Suite and Asset Suite
software from 2010 through July 31,
2013; and
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 351-13, adopted June
26, 2013 and Board of Control Resolution No. 217-14, adopted May 28,
2014; the City entered into agreements with Ventyx, Inc. for continued software maintenance and technical support services to maintain
the Ventyx Customer Suite, Service
Suite and Asset Suite software for
the years starting August 1, 2013
and August 1, 2014; and
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution
No.
361-14,
adopted
August 6, 2014, amended Resolution
No. 217-14, adopted May 28, 2014, by
substituting Hansen Banner, LLC, a
Hansen Technologies Company for
Ventyx, Inc. where appearing in the
resolution; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director,
previously authorized to contract
with a software developer or vendor
to acquire software, to enter into an
agreement with the developer or
vendor for professional services necessary to perform as-needed services
to implement or maintain the software products, including but not
limited
to
maintenance,
repair,
upgrades, migration, enhancements
and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into a one-year agreement
with Hansen Banner for continued
software maintenance and technical
support services to maintain the
Hansen Banner Customer Suite, Service Suite and Asset Suite software
for
the
one-year
term
starting
August 1, 2015; and
Whereas, Consultant has proposed
by its May 22, 2015 letter to perform
the continued software maintenance
and technical support services for
one year starting August 1, 2015 for
a fee of $133,578.72; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid Hansen Banner,

1876

December 9, 2015
LLC, a Hansen Technologies Company for additional maintenance
and technical support services for
the Hansen Banner Customer Suite,
Service Suite and Asset Suite software for the one-year term starting
August 1, 2015, shall not exceed
$133,578.72.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Savas, Barnette, Interim Director
Walker-Minor,
Director
McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 479-15.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Thermo Electron North America, LLC, except for
such terms and conditions as are
unacceptable to the Director of Law,
for an estimated quantity of the purchase of Gas Chromatography/Mass
Spectrometry (GC/MS) Instrument
and Appurtenances, Option 1, Item 1,
all items, for the Division of Water,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received on September 16, 2015,
under the authority of Section 129.28
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of
the
order
quantities
would
amount to $99,056.01 (0%, 45 Days),
with a trade-in allowance included
in pricing, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Public
Utilities
is
requested to enter into a contract
for the items.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Savas, Barnette, Interim Director
Walker-Minor,
Director
McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 480-15.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by Cleveland Construction, Inc., under City Contract
No.
PI2015*022
for
the
public
improvement of rehabilitating the
exterior terminal building facade
and the terminal ticketing lobby at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport under the authority of Ordinance No. 1587-09 and Ordinance No.
1588-09, both passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland on November 30, 2009 and Board of Control
Resolution No. 72-15, adopted March
11, 2015, is approved.
Subcontractors

CSB/MBE/FBE%
Amount

Icon Interior, Inc.
0.000%non-certified
$24,362.00
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Savas, Barnette, Interim Director
Walker-Minor,
Director
McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

December 9, 2015
Resolution No. 481-15.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Concord Road Equipment Mfg.,
Inc., for an estimated quantity of
automotive parts, including labor,
materials and installation, if necessary, items 4, 7, 7(a), 7(b), 8, 15(a),
15(b) and 15(c), for the various divisions of the Department of Port Control, for a period of two years beginning with the date of execution of
a
contract,
with
two
one-year
options to renew, received on July
31, 2015, under the authority of Ordinance No. 225-15, passed on April 27,
2015, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$250,240.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Port Control is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Savas, Barnette, Interim Director
Walker-Minor,
Director
McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 482-15.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Fulton Armature, Inc., for
an estimated quantity of various
charging
equipment,
parts
and
labor, all items, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works, for a period
of three year, beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on September 10, 2015 under
the authority of Section No. 131.64 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount
to
$201,750.00
(Net),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Savas, Barnette, Interim Director
Walker-Minor,
Director
McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 483-15.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and

The City Record

25

Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 007-09-034 located at 2178 West
29th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, B.R. Knez Construction,
Inc. has proposed to the City to purchase and develop the parcel for
new housing construction; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 3 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with B.R. Knez Construction, Inc. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00709-034 located at 2178 West 29th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Savas, Barnette, Interim Director
Walker-Minor,
Director
McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 3 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Jasmine Alexis
Boutros and Akram Boutros for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 004-18-041 located on West
6th Street, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $19,200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Savas, Barnette, Interim Director
Walker-Minor,
Director
McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

Resolution No. 484-15.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 004-18-041 located on West 6th
Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Jasmine Alexis Boutros
and Akram Boutros have proposed
to the City to purchase and develop
the parcel for new housing construction; and

Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.

1877

JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.

EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing will be notified of the results of
the examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
There-after, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of
the names of those candidates who
have been successful in all parts of
the examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

The City Record

26
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

First postponement made at the
request of the City in order to allow
for time to correct an address error.
Secretary

MONDAY DECEMBER 14, 2015
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 15-253: 3003 Payne
Avenue (Ward 7)
Porpan Lee, owner, proposes to
establish use as restaurant, with one
dwelling unit above and construct 4
space parking lot is a C4 Local
Retail Business District. The owner
appeals
for
relief
from
Section
349.04(f) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances which states that accessory off-street parking is required at
the rate of one space per 100 square
feet of patron space, plus one space
per employee and one space per
dwelling unit. 14 accessory off-street
parking spaces are required and
four are provided. (Filed November
23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-258: 3658 East 149th
Street (Ward 2)
Tracey Pratt, owner, proposes to
change use to commercial group
home for 7 clients in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner
appeals
for
relief
from
Section
337.02(f)(3)(D)
and
(F)
which
states that a commercial group
home for 7 clients must be at least
30 feet from adjoining premises and
requires the approval of the Board
of Zoning Appeals to determine if
adequate yard spaces and other
safeguards to preserve the character
of the neighborhood are provided,
and if such buildings and uses are
appropriately located and designed
and will meet a community need
without
adversely
affection
the
neighborhood. (Filed November 30,
2015)

December 9, 2015

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2015
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, December 7, 2015 the following appeals
were scheduled for hearing before
the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 15-251: 1958 West 58th
Street
Detroit Shoreway, owner, proposes
to erect a 16' - 6" x 38' - 10" two
story frame single family residence
in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 15-252: 1962 West 58th
Street
Detroit Shoreway, owner, proposes
to erect a 16' - 6" x 38' - 10" two
story frame single family residence
in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

appeals

were

None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:
None.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.

Calendar No. 15-259: 5919 Hosmer
Avenue (Ward 12)
Pratt Properties, LLC, owner, proposes to change use to commercial
group home for 11 clients in a B1
Two-Family
Residential
District.
The owner appeals for relief from
Section
337.02(f)(3)(D)
and
(F)
which state that a commercial group
home for 11 clients must be at least
30 feet from adjoining premises and
requires the approval of the Board
of Zoning Appeals to determine if
adequate yard spaces and other
safeguards to preserve the character
of the neighborhood are provided,
and if such buildings and uses are
appropriately located and designed
and will meet a community need
without
adversely
affection
the
neighborhood. (Filed November 30,
2015)
POSTPONED FROM
DECEMBER 7, 2015
Calendar No. 15-248: 1950 E. 89th Street
*corrected address* (Ward 6)
Cleveland Clinic, owner, proposes
to re-stripe a parking lot in a K5
General Retail Business District.
The owner appeals for relief from
Section 325.03 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
an
accessory
off-street
parking
space shall be a minimum area of
180 square feet and the proposed
area is 165 square feet. (Filed
November 16, 2015 - No Testimony)

Calendar No. 15-243: 3815 Clark
Avenue
Lorna VanHandel, owner, proposes to expand storage facility in a B1
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 15-245: 11015 Edgewater Drive
Brian and Heather Lazar, owners,
propose to erect a 16' - 8" x 18' one
story frame living room addition to
the existing single family residence
in an AA1 Limited One-Family Residential District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

Calendar No. 15-226: 2144 Broadview
Road
Reeda Nina LLC, owner, proposes
to install approximately 32 linear
feet of 6' high screened dumpster
enclosure fence in a C2 Local Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 15-241: 15410 Calcutta
Road
Amer
Abuaun,
owner,
appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances and
disputes the Notice of Violation
V15034081.
The following case was heard by
the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, November 16, 2015 and the
decision was adopted and approved
on Monday, December 7, 2015:
Calendar No. 15-237: 1898 East 123rd
Street
Mark Angie Builders, owner, proposes to erect two (2) identical 28'
x 77' three story frame two family
residences with an attached garages
in a C1 Multi-Family Residential
District.
Secretary

The following cases were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 15-236: 12523 Buckeye
Road
Howard Levine. Postponed to January 19, 2016.
Calendar No. 15-248:
9500 Euclid
Avenue
Cleveland Clinic. Postponed to
December 21, 2015.

were

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
Calendar No. 15-249: 1345 West 73rd
Street
John C. Boehm. Postponed to February 8, 2016.
Calendar No. 15-250: 2631 West 18th
Street
Ohio Awning LLC. Postponed to
January 4, 2016.
The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, November 30, 2015 and the
decisions
were
adopted
and
approved on Monday, December 7,
2015:

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 15-234: 18711 Fairville
Avenue
Gerald and Kathleen Nusbaum,
owners, propose to construct a 70
square foot room addition in an A1
One-Family Residential District.

1878

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.

December 9, 2015
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
File No. 154-15 — Purchase of Hauling and Disposing of Water Plant
Residuals, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 654-15, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, July 22,
2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY,
DECEMBER
17,
2015
AT
2:30
P.M.
CARL
B
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING, 4TH FLOOR SOUTH
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 155-15 — Quicklime, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 129.24 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2015 AT
10:00 A.M. CARL B STOKES PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114
File No. 156-15 — Crane and Hoist
Inspection and Maintenance (Rebid), for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 32815, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 20, 2015.

The City Record
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2015 AT
10:30 A.M. CARL B STOKES PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
December 9, 2015 and December 16, 2015
FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016
File No. 157-15 — Rehabilitating and
Relining Sewers at Various Locations (Re-bid), for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.291 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK OR A
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY,
DECEMBER
17,
2015 AT 10:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL,
12302
KIRBY
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44108.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
December 9, 2015 and December 16, 2015

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1459-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution opposing
Ohio House Resolution No. 31 (HCR
31) against allowing Syrian refugees
into the United States and to expressly welcome not only Syrian refugees
but also Iraqi, Congolese, Bhutanese,
Burmese and Somali refugees and
any other nationality processed by
the Cleveland resettlement agencies
and to reiterate that all refugees,
regardless of faith or country of origin are welcome in the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
proudly been a home for resettlement
for all those who have migrated here
since the City’s founding in 1796; the
richness and diversity of cultures
found in Cleveland is part of the fabric that makes our city so strong; and
Whereas, since 2008 over 2,500
refugees have been resettled in
greater Cleveland without security
incident or cause of concern; and
Whereas, during the last fiscal
year, more than 3,000 refugees have
resettled in Ohio, including 48 from
Syria and 403 from Iraq; and

1879

27
Whereas, the most recent 48 Syrian
refugees join an already large Syrian
population in Ohio that has made
great and valuable contributions to
this state and the communities in
Ohio where they reside; and
Whereas, this Council understands
that all refugees positively impact
the local economy, as stated in the
“Economic Impact of Refugees in the
Cleveland Area, Calendar Year 2012”,
by Chmura Economics & Analytics
and further, this Council appreciates
the financial growth to the local economy brought by all refugees; and
Whereas, this Council disagrees
with the concerns raised in HCR 31,
introduced by Representative Tim
Derickson, stating Ohio’s concern of
resettling Syrian refugees in this
state bearing in mind the terrorist
attacks in Paris; and
Whereas, HCR 31 formally asks the
Executive Branch to consider preventing the resettlement of the
largest displaced population since
World War II; and
Whereas, this Council believes that
HCR 31 is not an accurate representation of the City of Cleveland’s sentiment towards Muslim refugees or residents; this Council further believes
HCR 31 serves to undermine American core values and peoples’ rights
against discrimination protected by
the First Amendment; and
Whereas, the United States of
America has historically recognized
the right of persons to seek asylum
from persecution in other countries
and has signed on to documents such
as the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights 1948, and the United
Nations Convention relating to the
Status of Refugees, adopted in 1951,
which is the centerpiece of international refugee protection; this Convention resolved for member groups
the correct way to proceed with
refugee resettlement which procedures are to be applied without discrimination as to race, religion or
country of origin; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes
Ohio House Resolution No. 31 (HCR
31) against allowing Syrian refugees
into the United States and expressly
welcomes not only Syrian refugees
but also Iraqi, Congolese, Bhutanese,
Burmese and Somali refugees and
any other nationality processed by
the Cleveland resettlement agencies
and reiterates that all refugees,
regardless of faith or country of origin, are welcomed in the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Governor John Kasich
and all members of the Ohio legislature.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

28
Res. No. 1495-15.
By Council Members Zone, Cummins, Cimperman, Keane, Brady,
Polensek,
Brancatelli,
Pruitt,
Mitchell, Conwell.
An emergency resolution recognizing World AIDS Day on December 1,
2015, as an opportunity for Cleveland
to unite with people worldwide in the
fight against HIV/AIDS, to raise
awareness, support those living with
HIV/AIDS, and remember those who
have passed on.
Whereas, World AIDS Day is held
on the 1st of December each year as
an opportunity for people worldwide
to
unite
in
the
fight
against
HIV/AIDS, raise awareness, support
those living with HIV/AIDS, and
remember those who have passed on;
and
Whereas, globally there are an estimated thirty-six million people living
with the virus, and more than thirtyfive million people have died of
HIV/AIDS-related illnesses; and
Whereas, recent scientific breakthroughs now point the way to achieving an AIDS-free generation, according to the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention; and
Whereas, the 2015 theme, “The
Time to Act Is Now,” calls us to raise
awareness and act with urgency to
implement the latest high-impact, evidence-based HIV prevention strategies; and
Whereas, locally, the AIDS Taskforce of Greater Cleveland (ATGC)
has over 30 years of experience in
designing, delivering, and administering a range of services to people
living
with
and
affected
by
HIV/AIDS; and
Whereas, ATGC will recognize
World AIDS Day at their home, 2829
Euclid Avenue, at 5:00 p.m. with a candlelight march down Euclid Avenue
to Cibreo for a small reception, followed by enjoying the opening night
of the Wizard of Oz at the State Theater, Playhouse Square; and
Whereas, in collaboration with
Playhouse Square, a portion of any
ticket purchased to the musical will
be donated to ATGC to support those
in our community who are living with
and/or affected by HIV/AIDS; and
Whereas, this Council supports the
work of ATGC and recognizes World
AIDS Day on December 1, 2015, as an
opportunity for Cleveland to unite
with people worldwide in the fight
against HIV/AIDS; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council recognizes World AIDS Day on December 1,
2015, as an opportunity for Cleveland
to unite with people worldwide in the
fight against HIV/AIDS, to raise
awareness, support those living with
HIV/AIDS, and remember those who
have passed on.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to LaRaun Clayton, Interim Executive Director, and Rebecca
Murray-Strong, Director of Development and Marketing, AIDS Taskforce
of Greater Cleveland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 204-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more agreements
with the Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan
Park District to construct and maintain initial greening improvements
on City property located at the southeast corner of West Street and Merwin Street in advance of the City’s
larger Canal Basin Park project; and
authorizing agreements, as necessary
to implement this ordinance.
Whereas, in 2007, the City acquired
approximately 1.47 acres of land at
the southeast corner of West Street
and Merwin Street to Center Street for
Phase I of Canal Basin Park; and
Whereas, in November 2014, the
Steelyard Commons TIF Fund Committee agreed to fund The Board of
Park Commissioners of the Cleveland
Metropolitan
Park
District
(“Metroparks”) up to $300,000 for
Metroparks to construct and maintain
the initial green project improvements in advance of the City’s larger
Canal Basin Park project; and
Whereas, under Section 108(c) of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
when authorized by ordinance, competitive bidding and advertisement
are not required for purchase of services through employment of cooperative purchase arrangements with
other governmental agencies; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works or
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
agreements with Metroparks for the
financing, construction, and maintenance of the green project improvements.
Metroparks
will
make
improvements to the following property, which may include but not be
limited to, initial greening improvements such as removing existing
pavement and substructure, adding
soil and landscaping, and providing a
grassy area over the former industrial property. Metroparks shall maintain the following property during
the term of the agreement:
EXHIBIT A
Legal Description
AREA “A”
Real property in Cuyahoga County,
Ohio legally described as:
The following described real property in the City of Cleveland, County
of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being part of Sublots

1880

December 9, 2015
12, 13, 14 in I.L. Hewitt’s Subdivision
of part of the Merwin Estate as
recorded by Plat Volume 1, Page 10
Cuyahoga County Map Records, part
of West Alley as vacated by Plat Volume 227, Page 94 Cuyahoga County
Map Records, part of Turn Court
vacated by City of Cleveland Ordinance 72982, all of Sublot 34 and part
of Sublots 7, 8, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37 recorded by An Allotment for F.W. Bingham
of part of the Merwin Estate Volume
45, Page 43 Cuyahoga County Deed
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a 5/8 inch iron pin
found at the intersection of the
southerly line of West Street N.W.,
50.00 feet wide, and the easterly line
of Detroit-Superior Bridge, 120.00 feet
wide, also being the easterly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to the County
of Cuyahoga, Ohio by Volume 1594,
Page 633 Cuyahoga County Deed
Records;
Thence South 71 degrees 09 minutes
51 seconds East along the southerly
line of said West Street N.W. 235.84
feet to a point therein from which
point a Drill Hole set bears North 18
degrees 50 minutes 09 seconds East,
5.00 feet;
Thence southwesterly 119.98 feet
along a curve deflecting to the left
and having a radius of 1198.78 feet
and a chord which bears South 34
degrees 44 minutes 25 seconds West
119.93 feet to a Drill Hole set;
Thence North 52 degrees 10 minutes
04 seconds West 74.33 feet to a P.K.
Nail set;
Thence North 58 degrees 15 minutes
01 seconds West 163.00 feet to a Drill
Hole set in the easterly line of Merwin
Street N.W., 66.00 feet wide;
Thence North 31 degrees 44 minutes
59 seconds East along the easterly
line of said Merwin Street N.W. 14.75
feet to its intersection with the easterly line of said Detroit-Superior
Bridge from which point a Drill Hole
found bears South 31 degrees 44 minutes 59 seconds West, 0.11 feet and
south 58 degrees 15 minutes 01 seconds East, 0.06 feet;
Thence North 48 degrees 24 minutes
23 seconds East along the easterly
line of said Detroit-Superior Bridge
46.38 feet to the place of beginning
and containing 20,000 square feet or
0.4591 acres according to a survey by
John M. Zaranec, Jr. P.S. 7126 for
Zaranec Surveying Co. dated May 11,
2007.
The basis of bearing is the centerline of Center Street N.W. of North 88
degrees 09 minutes 02 seconds West
as shown by Plat Volume 320, Page 76
Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Note: The above described premises
is further known as Area “A” in the
Lot Split and Consolidation as recorded
in
Auditors
File
Number
200803180563 Cuyahoga County Map
Records.
AND AREA “B”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being all of Sublot 10,
11 and part of Sublots 9, 12 in I.L.
Hewitt’s Subdivision of part of the
Merwin Estate as recorded by Plat
Volume 1, Page 10 Cuyahoga County
Map Records, part of West Alley as
vacated by Plat Volume 227, Page 94
Cuyahoga County Map Records, part
of Turn Court vacated by City of
Cleveland Ordinance 72982, all of
Sublots 4 thru 6, 9, 30 and 31 part of
Sublots 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 29, 32, 33, 35, 36

December 9, 2015
and 37 recorded by an Allotment for
F.W. Bingham of part of the Merwin
Estate Volume 45, Page 43 Cuyahoga
County Deed Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
southerly line of West Street N.W.,
50.00 feet wide, and the westerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to John
W. Hickey by Auditors File Number
200403290128 Official Records Cuyahoga County from which point a 5/8
inch iron pin found bears North 18
degrees 50 minutes 09 seconds East,
2.10 feet;
Thence southwesterly along the
westerly line of said parcel of land
conveyed to John W. Hickey the following courses:
South 18 degrees 50 minutes 09 seconds West 30.67 feet to the northeasterly corner of Viaduct Pier 25 most
easterly bridge pier;
South 17 degrees 09 minutes 41 seconds West along the easterly face of
Viaduct Pier 25 most easterly bridge
pier 10.21 feet to the southeasterly
corner thereof;
South 36 degrees 13 minutes 51 seconds West 113.49 feet to the northeasterly corner of Viaduct Pier 24 most
easterly bridge pier;
South 12 degrees 22 minutes 35 seconds West along the easterly face of
Viaduct Pier 24 most easterly bridge
pier 10.40 feet to the southeasterly
corner thereof;
Thence South 01 degrees 50 minutes
58 seconds West 16.19 feet to its intersection with the northerly line of Center Street N.W., 60.00 feet wide, formerly Division Street from which
point a Drill Hole found Bears North
01 degrees 50 minutes 58 seconds
East, 0.48 feet;
Thence North 88 degrees 09 minutes
02 seconds West along the northerly
line of said Center Street 164.38 feet to
its intersection with the easterly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Mary
Coyne Investments, LLC. recorded by
Auditors File Number 200412301128
Parcel 2 Official Records Cuyahoga
County;
Thence North 01 degrees 50 minutes
58 seconds East along the easterly
line of said parcel of land conveyed to
Mary Coyne Investments, LLC. 107.93
feet to an angle point therein from
which point a 5/8 inch iron pin found
bears North 10 degrees 20 minutes 33
seconds East, 0.04 feet and South 79
degrees 39 minutes 27 seconds East,
0.34 feet;
Thence North 10 degrees 20 minutes
33 seconds East along the easterly
line of said parcel of land conveyed to
Mary Coyne Investments, LLC. 6.00
feet to a P.K. Nail set at a corner
thereof;
Thence North 79 degrees 39 minutes
27 seconds West along the northerly
line of said parcel of land conveyed to
Mary Coyne Investments, LLC. 21.32
feet to an angle point therein from
which point a 5/8 inch iron pin found
bears North 10 degrees 20 minutes 33
seconds East, 0.08 feet and South 79
degrees 39 minutes 27 seconds East,
0.54 feet;
Thence North 58 degrees 15 minutes
01 seconds West along the northerly
line of said parcel of land conveyed to
Mary Coyne Investments, LLC. 15.60
feet to a P.K. Nail set at a corner
thereof;
Thence South 31 degrees 44 minutes
59 seconds West along the westerly
line of said parcel of land conveyed to
Mary Coyne Investments, LLC. 51.03
feet to its intersection with the

The City Record
northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Target Industries, Inc. by
Deed Volume 85-5083, Page 14 Official
Records Cuyahoga County from
which point a P.K. Nail found bears
North 31 degrees 44 minutes 59 seconds East 0.11 feet and South 58
degrees 15 minutes 01 seconds East,
0.56 feet;
Thence North 58 degrees 15 minutes
01 seconds West along the northerly
line of said parcel of land conveyed to
Target Industries, Inc. 93.17 feet to its
intersection with the easterly line of
Merwin Street N.W., 66.00 feet wide,
from which point a Drill Hole found
bears south 31 degrees 44 minutes 59
seconds West, 0.47 feet and North 58
degrees 15 minutes 01 seconds West,
0.89 feet;
Thence North 31 degrees 44 minutes
59 seconds East along the easterly
line of said Merwin Street N.W. 90.00
feet to a Drill Hole set therein;
Thence South 58 degrees 15 minutes
01 seconds East 163.00 feet to a P.K.
Nail set;
Thence South 52 degrees 10 minutes
04 seconds East 74.33 feet to a Drill
Hole set;
Thence northeasterly 119.98 feet
along a curve deflecting to the right
and having a radius of 1198.78 feet
and a chord which bears North 34
degrees 44 minutes 25 seconds East,
119.93 feet to its intersection with the
southerly line of said West Street
N.W. from which point a Drill Hole set
bears North 18 degrees 50 minutes 09
seconds East, 5.00 feet;
Thence South 71 degrees 09 minutes
51 seconds East along the southerly
line of said West Street N.W. 73.72 feet
to the place of beginning and containing 36,079 square feet or 0.8283 acres
according to a survey by John M.
Zaranec, Jr. P.S. 7126 for Zaranec Surveying Co. dated May 11, 2007.
The basis of bearing is the centerline of Center Street N.W. of North 88
degrees 09 minutes 02 seconds West
as shown by Plat Volume 320, Page 76
Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Note: The above described premises
is further known as Area “B” in the
Lot Split and Consolidation as recorded
in
Auditors
File
Number
200803180563 Cuyahoga County Map
Records.
101-15-018
AND
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being Sublot Nos. 1, 2
and 3, part of vacated Turn Court and
part of vacated West Alley in F.W.
Bingham’s Allotment of part of the
Merwin Tract as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 45 of Deeds, Page 43
of Cuyahoga County Records and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
Center Street 60 feet wide (formerly
Division Street) at the Southeasterly
corner of said Sublot No. 3;
thence North 88 degrees 07' 30"
West 96.37 feet along said Northerly
line of Center Street to its intersection
with the center line of vacated West
Alley;
thence North 31 degrees 47' 00"
East 88.39 feet along said centerline
of West Alley to a point;
thence North 58 degrees 13' 00"
West 7.80 feet to a point in the Northwesterly line of vacated West Alley;
thence North 31 degrees 47' 00"
East 51.03 feet along the Northwesterly line of vacated West Alley, to a
point;

1881

29
thence South 58 degrees 13' 00"
East 15.60 feet to a point marking the
intersection of the Southeasterly line
of vacated West Alley and the centerline of vacated Turn Court;
thence 79 degrees 38' 15" East 21.21
feet along said centerline of vacated
Turn Court to a point;
thence South 10 degrees 21' 45"
West 6.00 feet to the Northeasterly
corner of said Sublot No. 3;
thence South 1 degree 52' 30" West
107.90 feet along the Easterly line of
said Sublot No. 3, to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways. The
bearings used in this description are
to an assumed meridian and are used
to describe various angles.
Section 2. That the agreements
shall not be construed as a conveyance of any right, title, or interest
in public property, but is the grant of
a privilege revocable at the will of
Council.
Section 3. That the agreement with
Metroparks shall include, but not be
limited to, granting reasonable rightof-entry rights to the City.
Section 4. That the agreement
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
any agreements with Metroparks, or
other entities, to implement this ordinance.
Section 6. That the costs of the
agreement shall not exceed $300,000
and shall be paid from Fund No. 20 SF
522, RQS 0103, RL 2015-17
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 978-15.
By Council Members Brady and
Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by amending
section 347.121 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No.1396-14,
passed December 8, 2014, relating to
Hookah Lounges and Vapor Lounges.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That section 347.121 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No.1396-14, passed December 8, 2014, is
hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 347.121 Hookah Lounges
and Vapor Lounges
(a) Where permitted in a particular
use district, hookah lounges and
vapor lounges, as described in Section 343.11, may only operate between
9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Sunday
through Thursday and between 9:00
a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday.
(b) Separation and Spacing. No
such use shall be established within
one thousand (1,000) feet of any

30
school, playground, daycare, public
park or other hookah lounge or vapor
lounge, or within five hundred (500)
feet of any residential district, church
or religious building.
(c) Parking. Hookah lounges and
vapor lounges shall provide a minimum of one (1) off-street parking
place for each employee and one (1)
for each seat based on the maximum
seating capacity for the establishment.
(d) The requirements of this section shall not apply to prior legally
conforming hookah lounge uses that
are legally existing as of the effective
date of Ordinance No. 978-15.
Section 2. That existing Section
347.121 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No.1396-14, passed December 8, 2014, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1227-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the agreement between the City of
Cleveland
and
the
Westshore
Enforcement Bureau for additional
reciprocal mutual aid services among
the parties.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 127306, passed January 28, 2008 Council
authorized the Director of Public
Safety to enter into a mutual aid
agreement
with
the
Westshore
Enforcement Bureau (“WEB”) for
reciprocal bomb squad and SWAT
unit services within all respective
areas, including Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport; and
Whereas, an amendment to the
agreement is necessary to include
field force services to deal with crowd
management, crowd control, and riot
situations as a reciprocal service
under the agreement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an amendment to the agreement
between the City of Cleveland and
WEB, authorized under Ordinance
No. 1273-06, to include field force services as a reciprocal service under the
agreement. No other changes to the
agreement are desired.
Section 2. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1232-15.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into a Mutual Aid Agreement
with the Eastside Departments Group
Enforcement Agency cities for reciprocal field force services, SWAT unit
services, and use of police equipment
within all respective areas, including
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Whereas, the Eastside Departments Group Enforcement Agency
(“EDGE”) is a combination of municipal law enforcement agencies comprised of the cities of Beachwood,
Euclid, Shaker Heights, South Euclid
and University Heights that provide
mutual aid to each other under an
agreement between them; and
Whereas, it is the intent of EDGE
and the City of Cleveland to provide
for, and mutually enhance, their
police service protection capabilities
in the event of an emergency in each
other’s
respective
jurisdictions,
including Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into a
Mutual Aid Agreement with EDGE
for reciprocal field force services to
deal with crowd management, crowd
control and riot situations, SWAT
unit services, and use of police equipment within all respective areas,
including Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Section 2. That any member of a
participating police department acting outside the limits of their municipal corporation in which they are
employed under this agreement, may
participate in any pension or indemnity fund established by their employer
at the same extent as while acting
within the employing municipal corporation, and are entitled to all the
rights and benefits of the applicable
sections of Chapter 4123 of the
Revised Code, to the same extent as
while they are employed. The pension
or indemnify fund of the municipal
corporation calling for assistance
shall not be liable for any benefits of
the responding municipal corporation.
Section 3. That in any such mutual
aid agreement or agreements, the
Director of Public Safety shall retain
authority to determine the extent of
aid committed and to decline to
respond to a request for mutual aid if
the aid requested interferes with the
Department of Public Safety’s ability
to provide the proper level of services
to its own constituency. The Director
of Law shall review all agreements to
determine that the terms and conditions are appropriate and consistent
with the City’s interests.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

1882

December 9, 2015
Ord. No. 1290-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
employ one or more professional consultants to develop and implement
program policies, systems and procedures necessary to manage and
define the Division of Water Pollution Control’s Capital Improvement
Plan, to support the execution and
delivery along with the implementation of specific CIP-related project
tasks, and to provide other related
services necessary to effectuate the
CIP, for the Division of Water Pollution Control, for a period not to exceed
five years.
Whereas, the Department of Public
Utilities, Division of Water Pollution
Control, currently has a Capital
Improvement Plan (“CIP”) to identify
and assess the approximate 1,436
miles of combined, sanitary and storm
sewer mains; and
Whereas, the Division of Water Pollution Control, under the CIP, has
identified approximately 27% of its
sewer system that has exceeded its
useful life based upon the age of the
sewer (the “study areas”); and
Whereas, the City wishes to employ
one or more consultants to provide
professional services to develop and
implement program policies, systems,
and procedures necessary to define
the CIP and support execution and
delivery along with the implementation of specific CIP-related project
tasks; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to develop and implement program policies,
systems and procedures necessary to
manage and define the CIP, to support the execution and delivery along
with the implementation of specific
CIP-project tasks, and to provide
other related services necessary to
effectuate the CIP, for the Division of
Water Pollution Control for a period
up to five years.
The selection of the consultant or
consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation to
be paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract
or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Utilities, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from funds appropriated for this
purpose in budget year 2016, and from
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds from the sale of
future sewer bonds, if issued for this
purpose.

The City Record

December 9, 2015
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1291-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
employ one or more professional consultants to conduct a sewer system
evaluation survey and condition
assessment of study areas and provide technical assistance and other
related services under the City’s Capital Improvement Plan.
Whereas, the Department of Public
Utilities, Division of Water Pollution
Control, currently has a Capital
Improvement Plan (“CIP”) to identify
and assess the approximate 1,436

31

miles of combined, sanitary and storm
sewer mains; and
Whereas, the Division of Water Pollution Control, under the CIP, has
identified approximately 27% of its
sewer system that has exceeded its
useful life based upon the age of the
sewer (the “study areas”); and
Whereas, the professional services
authorized in this ordinance will concentrate on the study areas to provide
recommendations
on
addressing
issues that may be present; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to conduct a sewer system evaluation survey and condition assessment of
study areas and to provide technical
assistance and other related services
under the CIP.

The selection of the consultant or
consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation to
be paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract
or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Utilities, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from funds appropriated for this
purpose in budget year 2016.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1318-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 111-15, passed March 23, 2015, relating to sewerage service rates within Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
111-15, passed March 23, 2015, is amended to read as follows:
Section 543.02

Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland

(a) Regular and Homestead Rates.
Sewer Rate Schedule
Quarterly

Monthly

Regular Rates
Minimum Charge
1st MCF

$12.53
$12.53

Minimum Charge
.3 MCF+

Quarterly

$4.17
$4.17
Monthly

Homestead Rates
Minimum Charge
1st MCF

$7.43
$7.43

Minimum Charge
.3 MCF+

$2.47
$2.47

(b) Special Homestead Rate. Special Homestead rates for customers will follow the same rules and requirements as set forth in Section 535.05 for the Division of Water.
(c) Fixed Charge Based Upon Meter Size.
Quarterly
Meter Size
1/2" to 1"
1 1/2" to 2"
3" to 4"
6"
8"
12"
Homestead

2015
$12.00
$30.00
$99.00
$198.00
$300.00
$450.00
$7.20

2016
$12.00
$30.00
$99.00
$198.00
$300.00
$450.00
$7.20

2017
$15.00
$40.00
$115.00
$225.00
$325.00
$500.00
$9.00

2018
$15.00
$40.00
$115.00
$225.00
$325.00
$500.00
$9.00

2019
$18.00
$55.00
$140.00
$260.00
$370.00
$550.00
$10.80

Also, fixed charges are not prorated but apply to all quarterly bills generated in a specific calendar year.

1883

The City Record

32

December 9, 2015

Monthly
Meter Size
1/2" to 1"
1 1/2" to 2"
3" to 4"
6"
8"
12"
Homestead

2015
$4.00
$10.00
$33.00
$66.00
$100.00
$150.00
$2.40

2016
$4.00
$10.00
$33.00
$66.00
$100.00
$150.00
$2.40

2017
$5.00
$13.30
$38.30
$75.00
$108.30
$166.70
$3.00

2018
$5.00
$13.30
$38.30
$75.00
$108.30
$166.70
$3.00

2019
$6.00
$18.30
$46.70
$86.70
$123.30
$183.30
$3.60

Also, fixed charges are not prorated but apply to all monthly bills generated in a specific calendar year.
(d) The sewerage service charges within the City shall be increased to meet the funding requirements of the
Ohio Water Development Authority.
(e) Nothing contained in this section shall be held to authorize or require the payment of any sewer rental
charge by any tax-supported department of the City.
(f) Except for 2015 rates, which shall be effective on April 1, 2015, all rates shall be effective on January 1 of
each year.
Section 2. That existing Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 111-15, passed March 23, 2015, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1365-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement
of
constructing
improvements for access and security
at the Morgan Water Works Plant;
and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing
improvements for access and security
at the Morgan Water Works Plant, for
the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a gross price for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. On
request of the director, the contractor
shall furnish a correct schedule of
unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all items constituting units
of the improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to

permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 52 SF 001, 52 SF 229, 52 SF 231, 52
SF 235, 52 SF 245, and from the fund or
funds to which are credited the proceeds from the sale of future bonds, if
authorized for this purpose, Request
No. RWS 2002, RL 2015-140.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1366-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of renewing water
mains for 2016; and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it
is determined to make the public
improvement of renewing various distribution water mains in the City of
Cleveland for work commencing in
2016, including cleaning and lining,
structural lining, and main replacement, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, by one
or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after

1884

competitive bidding upon a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding upon a unit
basis for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
No. 52 SF 001, RQS 2002, RL 2015-98.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1367-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of repairing or replacing transmission mains, valves, and
appurtenances as part of the 2016 to
2020 Trunk Main Renewal Program;
and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.

December 9, 2015
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of repairing or
replacing transmission mains, valves,
and appurtenances as part of the 20162020 Trunk Main Renewal Program,
for the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 52 SF 001, 52 SF 229, 52 SF 231, 52
SF 235, 52 SF 245, and from the fund or
funds to which are credited the proceeds from the sale of future bonds, if
authorized for this purpose, Request
No. RQS 2002, RL 2015-137.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1369-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing the
Aurora Road Pump Station and related site improvements; authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts needed to
equip and furnish the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing
the Aurora Road Pump Station and
related
site
improvements
(the
“Improvement”), for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder or
bidders after competitive bidding for
a gross price for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the Improvement may be treated as a
separate Improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. On
request of the director, the contractor
shall furnish a correct schedule of
unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all items constituting units
of the Improvement. That a copy of
the request for legislation, summarizing the project, has been placed in
File No. 1369-15-A.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one

33
or more written standard purchase
contracts and written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the period of requirements
to be determined by the director, for
the necessary items of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services
needed to equip and furnish the
Improvement, including labor and
materials if necessary, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 5. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of any purchase under the
contract, each of which purchases
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the cost of the public
improvement, standard contracts, and
other expenditures authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 52
SF 229, 52 SF 231, 52 SF 235, 52 SF 245,
and from the fund or funds to which
are credited the proceeds from the
sale of future bonds, if authorized for
this purpose, RQS 2002, RL 2015-136.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1371-15.
By Council Members Cimperman, Brancatelli, Cummins and Zone
An ordinance removing the mapped setbacks on the north and south sides of Clark Ave between Quigley Road and
Lorain Avenue and along the east and west sides of West 65th Street from I-90 to Stock Avenue (Map Change No. 2524).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all existing mapped setbacks along the north and south frontages of Clark Ave (width varies)
extending from Lorain Avenue to Quigley Avenue and as outlined on the attached map are hereby removed from
the Building Zone maps.
Section 2. That all existing mapped setbacks along the east and west frontages of West 65th Street (width varies)
extending from I-90 to Stock Avenue and as outlined on the attached map are hereby removed from the Building Zone
maps.
Section 3. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1-2 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2524, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1885

34

The City Record

1886

December 9, 2015

December 9, 2015

The City Record

35

Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 30, 2015.

Ord. No. 1400-15.
By Council Members Cimperman, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing Agreement with Cumberland TCC, LLC, or its designee, or others, to provide for redevelopment of Sites
A, B, and C as part of the Lakefront Development Plan; to provide for payments to the Cleveland City School
District; and to declare certain improvements to real property to be a public purpose.
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, improvements to real property may be declared to be a
public purpose where fee title to the real property was, at one time, held by the City of Cleveland and the real
property is then leased or conveyed by the City; and
Whereas, the City owns fee title to the real property which consists of real property more fully described in
this ordinance (the “Real Property”); and
Whereas, the Real Property is to be developed in accordance with the Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan adopted April 20, 2012, which proposes the redevelopment of residential apartments, commercial office
space, and retail and restaurant space surface parking lots and vacant buildings to multi-story, mixed-use developments, a copy of which is placed in the file for this ordinance; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, the improvements declared to be a public purpose may be
exempt from real property taxation; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.42 of the Revised Code, the owners of the improvements may be required to make
annual service payments in lieu of taxes that would have been paid had the improvement not been exempt; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, the exemption may exceed 75% of the improvements for
up to 30 years when a portion of the service payments so collected are distributed to the Cleveland City School
District (“District”) in an amount equal to the amount the District would have received had the improvement not
been exempt; and
Whereas, the District has been notified of the intent to enter into the agreement authorized by this ordinance
in compliance with Sections 5709.41(C)(4) and 5709.83 of the Revised Code; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

1887

The City Record

36

December 9, 2015

Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the improvements to be constructed by Cumberland TCC, LLC, or its designee, or others (“Redeveloper”), are declared to be a public purpose for purposes of Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code. The Real Property is more fully described as follows:
Legal Description Of
Parcel “1-A” (Lease Area)
Lakefront Development
Cleveland, OH
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, being part of the Lake Erie Submerged Lands adjacent to Township 7 North, Range 13 West of the Connecticut Western Reserve, and known as
being part of the Original Two Acre Lot No. 24, and the northerly extension thereof, and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the westerly line of the East 9th Street Pier as shown by the vacation plat
recorded in Volume 214, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Map Records at a northwesterly corner of Site “C” as shown
by the Lot Split and Consolidation Plat recorded in Volume 263, Page 15 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence North 33°54'58" West along the westerly line of the East 9th Street Pier, 259.50 feet to a drill hole set
at the Principal Place of Beginning of the premises and further bounded and described as follows;
Thence South 56°06'52" West, 84.86 feet to a drill hole set;
Thence North 37°21'05" West, 347.18 feet to a drill hole set;
Thence North 54°49'49" East, 125.69 feet to a drill hole set;
Thence South 33°54'58" East, 349.37 feet to a drill hole set;
Thence South 56°06'52" West, 20.00 feet to the Principal Place of Beginning and containing 0.9210 acres of land,
as described by Peter J. Gauriloff, P.S. No. 8646 of The Riverstone Company in April 2015 and subject to all legal
highways, restrictions, reservations, and easements of record.
Legal Description of Option Area
Phase1-Site B
Lakefront Development
Cleveland, OH
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio and known as being part of Site “C”:
in the Lot Split and Consolidation for the City of Cleveland of part of the Original Two Acre Lot No. 24, as shown
by the plat recorded in Volume 263, Page 15 of Cuyahoga County Map Records and described as follows:
Beginning on the westerly line of East 9th Street (formerly Erie Street) (99 feet wide) at the southeasterly
corner of said Site “C” as shown on the Lot Split and Consolidation for the City of Cleveland at the Principal
Place of Beginning of the Option Area Phase 1-Site B and further bounded and described as follows;
Thence South 56°06'52" West, 100.31 feet to a point;
Thence North 33°53'08" West, 139.57 feet to a point;
Thence North 78°53'08" West, 28.24 feet to a point;
Thence North 33°53'08" West, 29.76 feet to a point;
Thence North 56°06'52" East, 120.28 feet to the westerly line of East 9th Street;
Thence South 33°53'08" East along the westerly line of East 9th Street, 189.30 feet to the Principal Place of
Beginning and containing 0.45 acres of land, as described by Peter J. Gauriloff, P.S. No. 8646 of The Riverstone
Company in September 2014 and subject to all legal highways, restrictions, reservations, and easements of record.
Legal Description of Option Area
Phase1-Site C
Lakefront Development
Cleveland, OH
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio and known as being all of Site “B”
in the Lot Split and Consolidation for the City of Cleveland of part of the Original Two Acre Lot Nos 20, 21, and
22, as shown by the plat recorded in Volume 263, Page 15 of Cuyahoga County Map Records and described as
follows:
Beginning on the curved northerly line of relocated Erieside Avenue (70 Feet wide) at the southeasterly corner of said Site B shown on the Lot Split and Consolidation for the City of Cleveland at the Principal Place of
Beginning of the Option Area Phase 1 – Site C and further bounded and described as follows.
Thence along the curved northerly line of relocated Erieside Avenue deflecting to the right, an arc of 173.10
feet with a delta of 14°54'51", said curve having a radius of 665.00 feet, and a chord that bears South 43°04'31"
West, 172.61 feet to a point;
Thence North 33°53'08" West, 274.74 feet to a point;
Thence North 56°06'52" East, 168.16 feet to a point;
Thence South 33°53'08" East, 235.80 feet to the curved northerly line of relocated Erieside Avenue and the Principal Place of Beginning and containing 1.0 acres of land, as described by Peter J. Gauriloff, P.S. No. 8646 of The
Riverstone Company in September 2014 and subject to all legal highways, restrictions, reservations, and easements of record.
Section 2. That one hundred percent (100%) of the Improvements are declared exempt from real property taxation for a period of 30 years; and that in no event shall the exemption period extend beyond 2050. The terms
of the agreement are as follows:
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Developer:
Project Type:
Project Name:
Ward:
Project Site:

Cumberland TCC, LLC or designee
Tax Increment Financing
Cleveland Lakefront Development
3, Councilman Cimperman

1888

December 9, 2015

The City Record

37

Project Description
In 2013, the City of Cleveland released a Request for Proposals for the Redevelopment of the Lakefront. After
reviewing three proposals, the City selected the proposal of Cumberland TCC, LLC to develop these sites. Cumberland TCC, LLC is a joint venture of Cumberland Development, LLC (a Cleveland-based development company)
and Trammell Crow Co., LLC (a national footprint developer). The principal of Cumberland Development is Dick
Pace, who has developed numerous properties in Cleveland, including the Baker Electric Building and the Fifth
Street Arcades. Pursuant to previous ordinances, the City has entered into a Multi-Phase Option to Lease Agreement for the development of these sites. The first phase option has been executed and the development team has
begun preliminary work on the development of sites A, B, and C. Cumberland TCC has proposed almost $280,000,000
in development that will transform the Cleveland Lakefront.
Because these properties have never been significantly developed, infrastructure necessary for the proposed
intensive mixed-use development is lacking.
Sites A-B-C Development
The development will develop six sites: Sites A & B are at Voinovich Park and the former Skatepark and will
consist of park redevelopments, restaurants, retail, and several floors of residential; Site C between the Rock Hall
and Science Center, which is proposed as a six-story hotel above retail. The Developer has already begun the
process of leasing these sites from the City and has reviewed the Site A Design through the Planning process.
The Developer plans to break ground on Site A shortly and have the facility open by the summer of 2016. Site
B development is also currently in final design and will presented for planning review as well. Site C development is anticipated to begin in late 2016.
ORC 5709.41 Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Agreement (Non-School)
The development requires the construction of significant infrastructure improvements to the public right-of-ways
and surrounding areas, including enhancement of utilities, development of greenspace, and installation of a public-access boardwalk.

1889

38

The City Record

December 9, 2015

Under the proposed TIF, the Developer would make Payments in Lieu of Taxes on the property equivalent to
the full amount of the assessed taxes. A share of the PILOT proceeds equal to the school district’s share would
be paid to the schools, while the remainder would be used to fund the necessary infrastructure improvements (a
non-school TIF). PILOTS received would be channeled back into the financing, construction, and/or maintenance
of the improvements to the public infrastructure in the vicinity of the site. Any PILOTS remaining after the payment of these costs would be retained by the City as a reserve for future costs or other economic development
purposes. The TIF Agreement would limit the use of the PILOTS to expenses approved by the City for the infrastructure and other publicly accessible improvements.
City Requirements:
• Ch. 187 (MBE/FBE/CSB) Applies
• Ch. 188 (Fannie M. Lewis Resident Employment Law) Applies
• Ch. 189 (Fair Employment Wage Law) Applies
• Developer will execute a Community Benefits Agreement
Section 3. That under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, Redeveloper (or the owners of the Improvements)
shall make service payments for a period of thirty years in lieu of the exempt taxes to the Cuyahoga County
Treasurer; the payments shall be charged and collected in the same manner, and shall be in an amount not less
than the taxes that would have been paid had the Improvements not been exempt from taxation.
Section 4. That a portion of the service payments collected under Section 3 of this ordinance shall be distributed by the Cuyahoga County Treasurer to the Treasurer of the District in the amount of the taxes that would
have been payable to the District had the Improvement not been exempt from taxation, with the balance of such
service payments being deposited in the fund established pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement or agreements
with Redeveloper and other parties to provide for the exemption and service payments described in this ordinance, including agreements securing the payments described in this ordinance, which agreement or agreements
shall contain those terms contained in the file mentioned above.
Section 6. That under Section 5709.43 of the Revised Code, there is established an Urban Redevelopment Tax
Increment Equivalent Fund into which shall be deposited service payments in lieu of taxes (PILOTS) which shall
be used for the purpose of financing, constructing, and/or maintaining eligible infrastructure, roadways, or public recreation improvements located within the Project Development Area, as identified with the map entitled
“Project Development Area” and placed in the file for this ordinance, subject to the approval of the Director of
Economic Development or for other economic development purposes as determined by the Director of Economic
Development.
Section 7. That it is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to
the passage of this ordinance were adopted in open meetings of this Council, and any of its committees that
resulted in formal action were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 8. That the Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan adopted April 20, 2012, and a map entitled the “Project Development Area” have been placed in File No. 1400-15-A.
Section 9. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1401-15.
By Council Members Cimperman, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing Agreement with Cumberland TCC, LLC, or its designee, or others, to provide for redevelopment of Sites
D, E, and F as part of the Lakefront Development Plan; to provide for payments to the Cleveland City School
District; and to declare certain improvements to real property to be a public purpose.
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, improvements to real property may be declared to be a
public purpose where fee title to the real property was, at one time, held by the City of Cleveland and the real
property is then leased or conveyed by the City; and
Whereas, the City owns fee title to the real property which consists of real property more fully described in
this ordinance (the “Real Property”); and
Whereas, the subject Real Property is found, declared, and deemed to be a “Blighted Parcel” as defined in, and
under Section 1.08(B) of the Revised Code on the basis of specific conditions set forth in Sections 1.08(B)(1)(c)
and 1.08(B)(2)(a)(b) and (h) thereof, particularly consisting of multiple vacant, outdated warehouses with documented brownfield conditions and, as a consequence thereof, said Real Property is found, declared, and deemed
to be a “Blighted Area”, as defined in and under Section 1.08(A) of the Revised Code and as demonstrated and
documented by a certain study of the Lakefront Area which has been placed in the file for this ordinance, and
attached and incorporated with the Redevelopment Plan for the Lakefront; and
Whereas, the Real Property is to be developed in accordance with the Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan adopted April 20, 2012, which proposes the redevelopment of residential apartments, commercial office
space, and retail and restaurant space surface parking lots and vacant buildings to multi-story, mixed-use developments, a copy of which is placed in the file for this ordinance; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, the improvements declared to be a public purpose may be
exempt from real property taxation; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.42 of the Revised Code, the owners of the improvements may be required to make
annual service payments in lieu of taxes that would have been paid had the improvement not been exempt; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, the exemption may exceed 75% of the improvements for
up to 30 years when a portion of the service payments so collected are distributed to the Cleveland City School

1890

December 9, 2015

The City Record

39

District (“District”) in an amount equal to the amount the District would have received had the improvement not
been exempt; and
Whereas, the District has been notified of the intent to enter into the agreement authorized by this ordinance
in compliance with Sections 5709.41(C)(4) and 5709.83 of the Revised Code; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the improvements to be constructed by Cumberland TCC, LLC, or its designee, or others (“Redeveloper”), which Real Property is declared to be a Blighted Area as required by Section 5709.41(B) of the Revised
Code, are declared to be a public purpose for purposes of Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code. The Real Property is more fully described as follows:
Legal Description of Option Area
Phase 2-Site D
Lakefront Development
Cleveland, OH
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio and known as being part of Dock 32
as shown on Plat of Survey by Frank M. Cirnski P.S. No. 5714, dated August 1986 and revised January 1991 of
part of the Original Two Acre Lot Nos. 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 as shown in Map No. SUR-126, Pages 1 and 2 of City
of Cleveland Survey Records and described as follows:
Beginning on the northerly line of Erieside Avenue (70 Feet wide) at the southwesterly corner of said Dock
32, as shown on Plat of Survey by Frank M. Cirnski P.S. No. 5714, at the Principal Place of Beginning of the
Option Area Phase 1 – Site D and further bounded and described as follows;
Thence North 33°56'46" West, 451.85 feet to a point;
Thence North 52°56'19" East, 510.19 feet to a point;
Thence South 33°57'52" West, 474.82 feet to a point;
Thence South 56°02'08" West, 10.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 33°57'52" West, 176.00 feet to the curved northerly line of vacated Erieside Avenue by the City
of Cleveland Vacation Ordinance No. 1100-87 (70 feet wide);
Thence along the curved northerly line of vacated Erieside Avenue deflecting to the right, an arc of 89.83 feet
with a delta of 19°13'02", said curve having a radius of 267.82 feet, and a chord that bears South 76°37'09" West,
89.41 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence North 86°13'14" West continuing along northerly line of vacated Erieside Avenue, 120.73 feet to a point
of curvature;
Thence along the curved northerly line of vacated Erieside Avenue deflecting to the left, an arc of 310.16 feet
with a delta of 30°22'40", said curve having a radius of 585.00 feet and a chord that bears South 71°01'54" West,
306.54 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence South 55°50'34" West, continuing along the northerly line of vacated Erieside Avenue, 15.42 feet to the
Principal Place of Beginning and containing 6.18 acres of land, as described by Peter J. Gauriloff, P.S. No. 8646
of The Riverstone Company in September 20 and subject to all legal highways, restrictions, reservations and easements of record.

Legal Description of Option Area
Phase 3-Site E
Lakefront Development
Cleveland, Ohio
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio and known as being part of Dock 30
as shown on Plat of Survey by Frank M. Cirnski P.S. No. 5714, dated August 1986 and revised January 1991 of
part of the Original Two Acre Lot Nos. 12, 13, 14, and 15 as shown in Map No. SUR-126, Pages 1 and 2 of City
of Cleveland Survey Records and described as follows:
Beginning on the northerly line of Erieside Avenue (70 Feet wide) at the southwesterly corner of said Dock
30, as shown on Plat of Survey by Frank M. Cirnski P.S. No. 5714, at the Principal Place of Beginning of the
Option Area Phase 2 – Site E and further bounded and described as follows;
Thence North 33°56'46" West, 431.18 feet to a point;
Thence North 52°56'27" East, 500.74 feet to a point;
Thence South 33°56'46" East, 451.85 feet to the northerly line of Erieside Avenue;
Thence South 55°50'34" West and along the northerly line of Erieside Avenue, 429.96 feet to a point of curvature;

1891

The City Record

40

December 9, 2015

Thence along the curved northerly line of Erieside Avenue deflecting to the left, an arc of 70.27 feet with a
delta of 07°38'21", said curve having a radius of 527.01 feet and a chord that bears South 52°01'23" West, 70.21
feet to the Principal Place of Beginning and containing 5.04 acres of land, as described by Peter J. Gauriloff,
P.S. No. 8646 of The Riverstone Company in September 2014 and subject to all legal highways, restrictions, reservations and easements of record.

Legal Description of Option Area
Phase 4-Site F
Lakefront Development
Cleveland, Ohio
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio and known as being part of Dock 28
as shown on Plat of Survey by Frank M. Cirnski P.S. No. 5714, dated August 1986 and revised January 1991 of
part of the Original Two Acre Lot Nos. 9, 10, 11, and 12 as shown in Map No. SUR-126, Pages 1 and 2 of City of
Cleveland Survey Records and described as follows:
Beginning on the curved northerly line of Erieside Avenue (70 Feet wide) at the southeasterly corner of said
Dock 28, as shown on Plat of Survey by Frank M. Cirnski P.S. No. 5714, at the Principal Place of Beginning of
the Option Area Phase 4 – Site F and further bounded and described as follows;
Thence along the curved northerly line of Erieside Avenue deflecting to the left, an arc of 280.21 feet with a
delta of 30°27'50", said curve having a radius of 527.01 feet and a chord that bears South 32°58'18" West, 276.92
feet to a point;
Thence North 73°04'53" West, 181.03 feet to a point;
Thence North 33°56'46" West, 378.89 feet to a point;
Thence North 52°53'03" East, 369.57 feet to a point;
Thence South 33°56'46" East, 433.18 feet to the northerly line of Erieside Avenue and the Principal Place of
Beginning and containing 3.90 acres of land, as described by Peter J. Gauriloff, P.S. No. 8646 of The Riverstone
Company in September 2014 and subject to all legal highways, restrictions, reservations and easements of record.
Section 2. That one hundred percent (100%) of the Improvements are declared exempt from real property taxation for a period of 30 years; and that in no event shall the exemption period extend beyond 2050. The terms
of the agreement are as follows:
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Developer:
Project Type:
Project Name:
Ward:
Project Site:

Cumberland TCC, LLC or designee
Tax Increment Financing
Cleveland Lakefront Development
3, Councilman Cimperman

1892

December 9, 2015

The City Record

41

Project Description
In 2013, the City of Cleveland released a Request for Proposals for the Redevelopment of the Lakefront. After
reviewing three proposals, the City selected the proposal of Cumberland TCC, LLC to develop these sites. Cumberland TCC, LLC is a joint venture of Cumberland Development, LLC (a Cleveland-based development company)
and Trammell Crow Co., LLC (a national footprint developer). The principal of Cumberland Development is Dick
Pace, who has developed numerous properties in Cleveland, including the Baker Electric Building and the Fifth
Street Arcades. Pursuant to previous ordinances, the City has entered into a Multi-Phase Option to Lease Agreement for the development of these sites. The first phase option has been executed and the development team has
begun preliminary work on the development of sites A, B, and C. Cumberland TCC has proposed almost $280,000,000
in development that will transform the Cleveland Lakefront.
Because these properties have never been significantly developed, infrastructure necessary for the proposed
intensive mixed-use development is lacking.
Sites D-E-F Development
Sites D, E, & F, north of the stadium, which will be developed in three phases, and consist of approximately
1,000 apartments and 100,000sf of office. These developments will also include parks and public water access
space, including a boardwalk. This site will transform the Cleveland waterfront and make the former docks accessible for residents and visitors. The development team is currently exploring multiple prospective tenants for the
project area and is looking to begin planning development in this area in 2017.
ORC 5709.41 Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Agreement (Non-School)
The development requires the construction of significant infrastructure improvements to the public right-of-ways
and surrounding areas, including enhancement of utilities, development of greenspace, and installation of a public-access boardwalk.
Under the proposed TIF, the Developer would make Payments in Lieu of Taxes on the property equivalent to
the full amount of the assessed taxes. A share of the PILOT proceeds equal to the school district’s share would
be paid to the schools, while the remainder would be used to fund the necessary infrastructure improvements (a
non-school TIF). PILOTS received would be channeled back into the financing, construction, and/or maintenance
of the improvements to the public infrastructure in the vicinity of the site. Any PILOTS remaining after the payment of these costs would be retained by the City as a reserve for future costs or other economic development
purposes. The TIF Agreement would limit the use of the PILOTS to expenses approved by the City for the infrastructure and other publicly accessible improvements.
Because a portion of the site will be developed with residential improvements, the area surrounding sites D-EF has been designated as a blighted area in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio Revised Code, in order
for residential improvements to be included within the TIF.
City Requirements:
• Ch. 187 (MBE/FBE/CSB) Applies
• Ch. 188 (Fannie M. Lewis Resident Employment Law) Applies
• Ch. 189 (Fair Employment Wage Law) Applies
• Developer will execute a Community Benefits Agreement
Section 3. That, under Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code, Redeveloper (or the owners of the Improvements)
shall make service payments for a period of thirty years in lieu of the exempt taxes to the Cuyahoga County
Treasurer; the payments shall be charged and collected in the same manner, and shall be in an amount not less
than the taxes that would have been paid had the Improvements not been exempt from taxation.
Section 4. That a portion of the service payments collected under this ordinance shall be distributed by the
Cuyahoga County Treasurer to the Treasurer of the District in the amount of the taxes that would have been
payable to the District had the Improvement not been exempt from taxation, with the balance of such service
payments being deposited in the fund established pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement or agreements
with Redeveloper and other parties to provide for the exemption and service payments described in this ordinance, including agreements securing the payments described in this ordinance, which agreement or agreements
shall contain those terms contained in the file mentioned above.
Section 6. That under Section 5709.43 of the Revised Code, there is established an Urban Redevelopment Tax
Increment Equivalent Fund into which shall be deposited service payments in lieu of taxes (PILOTS) which shall
be used for the purpose of financing, constructing, and/or maintaining eligible infrastructure, roadways, or public recreation improvements located within the Project Development Area, as identified with the map entitled
“Project Development Area” and placed in the file for this ordinance, subject to the approval of the Director of
Economic Development or for other economic development purposes as determined by the Director of Economic
Development.
Section 7. That it is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to
the passage of this ordinance were adopted in open meetings of this Council, and any of its committees that
resulted in formal action were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 8. That the blight study, the Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan adopted April 20, 2012,
and a map entitled the “Project Development Area” have been placed in File No. 1401-15-A.
Section 9. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

1893

42
Ord. No. 1406-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of rehabilitating the
Baldwin, Crown, Morgan and Nottingham Water Works plants; and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it
is determined to make the public
improvement of rehabilitating the
Baldwin, Crown, Morgan and Nottingham Water Works plants, including
but not limited to, improving chemical, HVAC, and electrical systems,
improving pumping and solids handling, and modifying and repairing
roofing, masonry and structural elements, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, by one
or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding upon a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding upon a unit
basis for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 52 SF 001, 52 SF 229, 52 SF 231, 52
SF 235, 52 SF 245, and from the fund or
funds to which are credited the proceeds from the sale of future bonds, if
authorized for this purpose, RQS 2002,
RL 2015-134.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1407-15.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Dealer Tire, LLC, or its
designee, to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially
finance the relocation of Dealer Tire
to the Victory Center site located at
7012 Euclid Avenue.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into a grant agreement with
Dealer Tire, LLC, or its designee to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the relocation of Dealer Tire to the Victory Center site located at 7012 Euclid Avenue.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$1,000,000 and shall be paid from Fund
No. 17 SF 652, Request No. RQS 9501,
RL 2015-151.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That the contract authorized in this legislation will require
the recipient of financial assistance
and/or their Tenants to work with,
The Workforce Investment Board for
Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and
solicit qualified candidates for job
opportunities related to the City’s contracts, and place special emphasis on
the hard to employ, including but not
limited to the disabled and persons
who have been convicted of or have
pled guilty to a criminal offense,
unless the criminal conviction or circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1408-15.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire and re-convey
properties presently owned by Victory Midtown, LLC, or its designee,
located at 7012 Euclid Avenue for the
purpose of entering into the chain-oftitle prior to the adoption of tax increment financing legislation authorized under Section 5709.41 of the
Revised Code; and authorizing an
agreement with Victory Midtown,
LLC, or its designee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to acquire from
and reconvey to Victory Midtown,
LLC, or its designee, for a price of one
dollar and other valuable considerations determined as fair market
value, some or all of the following
property for the purpose of entering
into the chain-of-title prior to the

1894

December 9, 2015
adoption of tax increment financing
legislation authorized under Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code and more
fully described as follows:
Permanent Parcel No(s).: 118-14-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a northerly part
of Parcel “A” in the Lot Consolidation
of part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 338 as recorded in Volume 357,
Page 68 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records and being all of Sublot No. 1
in the Carnegie Euclid Company’s
Subdivision as recorded in Volume 67,
Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records and further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at a 1" iron pin monument found at an angle point in the
centerline of Euclid Avenue (120 feet
wide) as shown on the City of Cleveland Survey Department Euclid Corridor Centerline Alignment Survey
(SUR-190, Page 4 of 6) dated August
25, 2008;
Thence South 86°53 '01" East along
the centerline of Euclid Avenue, 2.25
feet to the intersection of the centerlines of Euclid Avenue and East 71st
Street (60 feet wide);
Thence South 00°48'12" East along
the centerline of East 71st Street,
60.14 feet to a point;
Thence North 86°55'34" West, 30.07
feet to a drill hole found at the intersection of the southerly right of way
of Euclid Avenue and the westerly
right of way of East 71st Street and
being the Principal Place of Beginning of the premises described herein;
Thence South 00°48'12" East along
the westerly right of way of East 71st
Street, 186.68 feet to a 5/8"x30" iron
pin set;
Thence South 89°11'24" West,
282.37 feet to a 5/8"x30" iron pin set on
the easterly right of way of East 70th
Street (50 feet wide);
Thence North 00°48'15" West along
the easterly right of way of East 70th
Street, 205.85 feet to a drill hole found
at the intersection with the southerly
right of way of said Euclid Avenue;
Thence South 86°55'34" East along
the southerly right of way of Euclid
Avenue, 283.02 feet to the Principal
Place of Beginning and containing
1.2723 acres of land as described by
Edward Dudley, P. S. No. 6747, of the
Riverstone Company on October of
2013 and subject to all legal highways, reservations, restrictions, and
easements of record.
Further known as being Parcel “B”
in the Lot Split and Consolidation creating Parcels “B” and “C”, being part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
338 as shown by the plat recorded in
Volume 375, Page 17 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records.
Premises commonly known as: 7012
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44103
Permanent Parcel No(s).:
118-14-006 & 118-14-007
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being a southerly part of Parcel
“A” in the Lot Consolidation of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
338 as recorded in Volume 357, Page
68 of Cuyahoga County Map Records
and being part of Sublot Nos. 2, 7, 10
and 15 and all of Sublot Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6,
II, 12, 13 and 14 in the Carnegie Euclid
Company’s Subdivision as recorded in
Volume 67, Page 22 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records and being further bounded and described as follows:

December 9, 2015
Beginning at a 1" iron pin monument found at an angle point in the
centerline of Euclid Avenue (120 feet
wide) as shown on the City of Cleveland Survey Department Euclid Corridor Centerline Alignment Survey
(SUR-190, Page 4 of 6) dated August
26, 2008;
Thence South 86°53'01" East along
the centerline of Euclid Avenue, 2.25
feet to the intersection of the centerlines of Euclid Avenue and East 71st
Street (60 feet wide);
Thence South 00°48'12" East along
the centerline of East 71st Street,
60.14 feet to a point;
Thence North 86°55'34" West, 30.07
feet to a drill hole found at the intersection of the southerly right of way
of Euclid Avenue and the westerly
right of way of East 71st Street;
Thence South 00°48'12" East along
the westerly right of way of East 7lst
Street, 186.68 feet to a 5/8"x30" iron
pin set and being the Principal Place
Of
Beginning
of
the
premises
described herein;
Thence South 00°48'12" East continuing along the westerly right of
way of East 71st Street, 307.95 feet to
a 5/8"x30" iron pin found at the northeasterly corner of land conveyed to D
& S Vending Repair, LLC (P.P.N. 11814-029 and P.P.N. 118-14-030) by deed
dated June 12, 2009 and recorded in
Auditor’s File Number 200906120709 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence South 89°11'24" West along
the northerly line of land so conveyed
to D & S Vending Repair, LLC, 282.36
feet to a 5/8"x30" iron pin found on
the easterly right of way of East 70th
Street;
Thence North 00°48'15" West along
the easterly right of way of East 70th
Street (50 feet wide); 307.95 feet to a
5/8"x30" iron pin set;
Thence North 89°11'24" East, 282.37
feet to the Principal Place Of Beginning and containing 1.9962 acres of
land as described by Edward Dudley,
P. S. No. 6747, of the Riverstone Company, October of 2013 and subject to
all legal highways, reservations,
restrictions, and easements of record.
Further known as being Parcel “C” in
the Lot Split and Consolidation creating Parcels “B” and “C”, being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
338 as shown by the plat recorded in
Volume 375, Page 17 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records.
Parcel No.: 118-14-009
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being the Westerly part of Sublot No. Nine (9) in the
Carnegie-Euclid Company’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 338 as shown by the
recorded plat of said) Subdivision in
Volume 67 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
Northerly line of Carnegie Avenue,
S.E. and the Easterly line of East 70th
Street;
Thence easterly along said Northerly line of Carnegie Avenue, S.E., 100
feet;
Thence Northerly parallel with said
Easterly line of East 70th Street,
about 203-04/100 feet to the Northerly
line of said Sublot No. 9;
Thence
Westerly
along
said
Northerly line of Sublot No. 9 to the
Easterly line of East 70th Street;
Thence Southerly along the Easterly line of East 70th Street, 199-23/100

The City Record
feet to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Parcel No.: 118-14-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being the Southerly 39 feet of Sublot No. 15 and all of
Sublot No. 16 in the Carnegie-Euclid
Company’s Subdivision of part of
Original 100 Township Lot No. 338, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
67 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and together forming a parcel of land 100 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 70th Street,
and extending back of equal width
130 feet as appears by said plat.
Parcel No.: 118-14-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No. 8
and the Southerly 39 feet from front to
rear of Sublot No. 7 in the CarnegieEuclid Company’s Subdivision of part
of Original 100 acre Lot No. 338, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 67 of Maps,
Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records.
The said Sublot No. 8 and part of
Sublot No. 7, together forming a parcel of land having a frontage of 100
feet on the Westerly side of East 71st
Street, and extending back between
parallel lines a distance of 152.50 feet,
be the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Permanent Parcel No.: 118-14-008
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being the Easterly part of Sublot No. 9 in the Carnegie
Euclid Company’s Subdivision of a
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 338, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 67 of Maps, Page 22 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
bounded an described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
Northerly line of Carnegie Avenue
S.E., and the Westerly line of East
71st Street;
Thence
Westerly
along
said
Northerly line of Carnegie Avenue
S.E., 182.71 feet;
Thence Northerly parallel with the
Easterly line of East 70th Street,
about 203.04 feet to the Northerly line
of said Sublot No. 9;
Thence
Easterly
along
said
Northerly line of Sublot No. 9 to the
Westerly line of East 71st Street;
Thence Southerly along the Westerly line of East 71st Street, 210 feet to
the place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
execute on behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to
acquire and to convey the properties
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, environmental audits, and
all other costs necessary for the
acquisition and sale of the properties.
Section 3. That this Council finds
that the conveyances constitute a
public purpose.
Section 4. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Victory

1895

43
Midtown, LLC, or its designee, which
shall include the terms and conditions
of the transaction authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1409-15.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Victory
Midtown,
LLC,
or
its
designee, to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially
finance eligible demolition and
asbestos abatement costs associated
with the Victory Center site, located
at 7012 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter a loan agreement with Victory
Midtown, LLC, or its designee, in an
amount of up to $500,000, to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance eligible demolition
and asbestos abatement costs associated with the Victory Center site,
located at 7012 Euclid Avenue.
Section 2. That the summary for the
loan, File No. 1409-15-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept such collateral as the director
determines is sufficient in order to
secure repayment of the loan.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment of the
loan and to deposit the monies in
Fund No. 17 SF 167.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
fees under federal regulations and
the fees are appropriated to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
the loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 965, Industrial Commercial
Land Bank Fund.
Section 6. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 7. The contract authorized
in this legislation will require the
recipient of financial assistance
and/or their Tenants to work with
The Workforce Investment Board for
Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and
solicit qualified candidates for job
opportunities related to the City’s contracts, and place special emphasis on

44
the hard to employ, including but not
limited to the disabled and persons
who have been convicted of or have
pled guilty to a criminal offense,
unless the criminal conviction or
related circumstances relate to the
duties for the particular job sought.
Section 8. That the costs of any
funding under this ordinance shall
not exceed $500,000, and shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 17 SF 166 and 17 SF
965.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1410-15.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 3 of Ordinance No. 463-14, passed August 20,
2014, relating to a HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan to partially finance a
portion of the overall redevelopment
of the Victory Building located at 7012
Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 3 of Ordinance No. 463-14,
passed August 20, 2014, are amended
to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a HUD
108 Empowerment Zone loan from the
United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development to partially
finance the tenant build-out and/or
parking garage of the overall redevelopment of the Victory Building
located at 7012 Euclid Avenue and
other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the properties; and authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into one or more
agreements with Victory Midtown,
LLC, or its designee, for the project.
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
apply for and accept a HUD 108
Empowerment Zone loan in an
amount up to $4,000,000, from the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (”HUD”), to partially finance the tenant build-out
and/or parking garage of the overall
redevelopment of the Victory Building located at 7012 Euclid Avenue
(the “Project”).
Section 3. That the terms of the loan
shall be according to the terms set
forth in the Summary contained in
File No. 463-14-B, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation, and are approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 3 of Ordinance No.
463-14, passed August 20, 2014, are
repealed.

The City Record
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1411-15.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Victory Midtown, LLC, or
its designee, to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance improvements at the Victory
Center site, located at 7012 Euclid
Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into a grant agreement with
Victory Midtown, LLC, or its designee
to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the
improvements at the Victory Center
site, located at 7012 Euclid Avenue.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$1,000,000 and shall be paid from Fund
No. 17 SF 652, Request No. RQS 9501,
RL 2015-150.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That the contract authorized in this legislation will require
the recipient of financial assistance
and/or their Tenants to work with,
The Workforce Investment Board for
Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and
solicit qualified candidates for job
opportunities related to the City’s contracts, and place special emphasis on
the hard to employ, including but not
limited to the disabled and persons
who have been convicted of or have
pled guilty to a criminal offense,
unless the criminal conviction or circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1429-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an amendment to Contract No. CT
1503 PS 2013-81 with TruePoint Solutions, LLC to provide additional services under the agreement.

1896

December 9, 2015
Whereas, under Section 181.102 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Finance
entered into Contract No. CT 1503 PS
2013-81 with TruePoint Solutions, LLC
to implement and manage the Accela
software plaform used by various
divisions of the City; and
Whereas, additional changes are
necessary to provide services under
the agreement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter to an
amendment to Contract No. CT 1503
PS 2013-81 with TruePoint Solutions,
LLC to provide additional services in
two Phases. Phase I will automate
and
support
consolidation
and
streamline permitting functions for
the Division of Assessment and
Licenses and the Department of
Building and Housing. Phase II will
resume ongoing Accela-funded initiatives for electronic plan review of permitting and licensing plans for the
Division of Assessment and Licenses,
Department of Building and Housing,
and other divisions of the City. All
other terms and conditions of Contract No. CT 1503 PS 2013-81 shall
remain the same.
Section 2. That the contract amendment shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract amendment shall not exceed
$1,132,812.50 and shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 562 and 20 SF 566.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

Ord. No. 1438-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute a deed of easement and various temporary deeds of easement
granting to Cuyahoga County certain
easement rights in property located
in Rockefeller Park and declaring the
easement rights not needed for the
City’s public use.
Whereas, Cuyahoga County has
requested the Director of Public
Works to convey certain easement
rights and temporary easement rights
in property located in Rockefeller
Park within a portion of Permanent
Parcel No. 121-26-001; and
Whereas,
Cuyahoga
County
requires the easement rights in Rockefeller Park for the rehabilitation of
the Doan Brook Culvert under Cedar
Road, and known as their Cedar Road
Bridge No. 229 Project; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

December 9, 2015
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
easement interests in the following
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:
PARCEL #1-SH
CEDAR ROAD
BRIDGE NO. 229
M-5021
STANDARD HIGHWAY FOR
BRIDGE REHABILITATION
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
being part of the Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 411 and being 0.0381 acres
STANDARD HIGHWAY #1-SH for
Bridge No. 229 located within a record
parcel of land as conveyed to The City
of Cleveland by deed dated April 12,
1897, as recorded in Deed Vol. 660, Pg.
288 of Cuyahoga County Records and
more
particularly
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin in a
monument box found at an angle
point on the original centerline of
Cedar Road, said point being at Station 9+31.47, 50.50' Rt from the current centerline of right-of-way of
Cedar Road as shown on the Centerline Schematic Plan (Sheet 2 of 5) of
the Right-of–Way Plans for Cedar
Road;
Thence North 07° 11' 33" East,
along a line a distance of 50.50 feet to
a point, said point being at Station
9+31.47 on the centerline of said
Cedar Road;
Thence North 82° 48' 27" West, a
distance of 112.17 feet along the centerline of Cedar Road to a point; said
point being at Station 8+19.30 on the
centerline of Cedar Road;
Thence South 07° 11' 33" West, a
distance of 48.50 feet to a point, said
point being at Station 48.50' Rt of Station 8+19.30 on the centerline of
Cedar Road;
Thence North 82° 48' 27" West, a
distance of 25.07 feet along the south
right-of-way of Cedar Road to a point,
said point being 48.50' Rt of Station
7+94.23 on the centerline of Cedar
Road; and the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING of the herein described
tract of being;
Thence North 82° 48' 27" West, a
distance of 44.71 feet along the south
right-of-way of Cedar Road to a point,
said point being 48.50' Rt of Station
7+49.53 on the centerline of Cedar
Road;
Thence South 18° 34' 16" East, a distance of 53.86 feet across subject parcel to a point on the easterly property
line, said point being 97.01' Rt of Station 7+72.94 on the centerline of
Cedar Road;
Thence North 78° 36' 03" East, a distance of 19.34 feet along the easterly
property line of said parcel to a point,
said point being 90.84' Rt of Station
7+91.27 on the centerline of Cedar
Road;
Thence North 29° 18' 53" East, a distance of 22.65 feet along the easterly
property line of said parcel to a point,
said point being 69.86' Rt of Station
7+99.80 on the centerline of Cedar
Road;
Thence South 82° 51' 07" East, a distance of 4.39 feet along the easterly
property line of said parcel to a point,
said point being 69.85' Rt of Station
8+04.18 on the centerline of Cedar
Road;

The City Record
Thence North 17° 47' 15" West, a
distance of 23.56 feet across subject
parcel to a point on the southerly
right-of-way of Cedar Road, said point
being 48.50' Rt of Station 7+94.23 on
the centerline of Cedar Road; to the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING and
containing more or less 0.0381 acres
(1659 sq. ft.) and subject to all legal
easements, restrictions, reservations,
conditions and right-of-way of previous record;
Basis of Bearing for this legal
description is South 82° 48' 27" East
as the centerline of Cedar Road as evidenced by monuments found and is
the same as calculated and reproduced based on using Ohio State
Plane Coordinate System, North Zone
(NAD83-1995) Datum by ties to the
O.D.O.T. CORS Network using GRAF
and are for the purpose of indicating
variations;
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of right-of-way of
Cedar Road Bridge No. 229 in the City
of Cleveland, as shown on the Centerline Plat of the Right-of-Way Plans
for Cedar Road Bridge No. 229 recorded in Volume 378, Page 83 of Cuyahoga County Records.
This description was prepared
under
the
supervision
of
and
reviewed by Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058
from a survey made under the supervision of Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058 for
Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. in
conjunction with the Cuyahoga County Plan Cedar Road Bridge No. 229.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
temporary easement interests in the
following described two properties
are not needed for the City’s public
use:
PARCEL #1-T1
CEDAR ROAD
BRIDGE NO. 229
M-5021
TEMPORARY EASEMENT FOR
BRIDGE REHABILITATION
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
being part of the Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 411 and being 0.4026 acres
TEMPORARY EASEMENT #1-T1 for
Bridge No. 229 located within a record
parcel of land as conveyed to The City
of Cleveland by deed dated April 12,
1897, as recorded in Deed Vol. 660, Pg.
288 of Cuyahoga County Records and
more
particularly
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin in a
monument box found at an angle
point on the original centerline of
Cedar Road, said point being at Station 9+31.47, 50.50' Rt from the current centerline of right-of-way of
Cedar Road as shown on the Centerline Schematic Plan (Sheet 2 of 5) of
the Right-of–Way Plans for Cedar
Road;
Thence North 07° 11' 33" East, a distance of 50.50 feet to a point, said
point being at Station 9+31.47 on the
centerline of said Cedar Road;
Thence North 82° 48' 27" West, a
distance of 181.95 feet along the centerline of Cedar Road to a point; said
point being at Station 7+49.53 on the
centerline of Cedar Road;
Thence South 07° 11' 33" West, a
distance of 48.50 feet to a point, said

1897

45
point being at Station 48.50' Rt of Station 7+49.53 on the centerline of
Cedar Road; and the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING of the herein described
tract of being;
Thence North 82° 48' 27" West, a
distance of 69.48 feet along the
southerly right-of-way of Cedar Road
to a point; said point being 48.22' Rt
of Station 6+78.55 on the centerline of
Cedar Road;
Thence South 16° 57' 08" West, a
distance of 30.87 feet to a point, said
point being 78.44' Rt of Station
6+71.51' on the centerline of Cedar
Road;
Thence South 56° 12' 38" East, a distance of 11.45 feet to a point, said
point being 83.89' Rt of Station
6+83.04 on the centerline of Cedar
Road;
Thence South 32° 49' 38" West, a
distance of 100.00 feet to a point, said
point being 170.76' Rt of Station
6+20.82 on the centerline of Cedar
Road;
Thence North 77° 10' 22" West, a
distance of 65.00 feet to a point, said
point being 152.37' Rt of Station
5+37.11 on the centerline of Cedar
Road;
Thence South 32° 49' 38" West, a
distance of 25.00 feet to a point, said
point being 171.19' Rt of Station
5+15.02 on the centerline of Cedar
Road;
Thence South 57° 10' 22" East, a distance of 136.08 feet to a point on the
easterly property line of said parcel,
said point being 249.13' Rt of Station
6+83.00 on the centerline of Cedar
Road;
Thence North 32° 49' 38" East, a distance of 164.00 feet to a point, said
point being an easterly property corner of subject parcel and being
101.38' Rt of Station 7+59.92 on the
centerline of Cedar Road;
Thence North 78° 36' 03" East, a distance of 13.73 feet along the easterly
property line to a point; said point
being 97.01' Rt of Station 7+72.94 on
the centerline of Cedar Road;
Thence North 18° 34' 16" West, a
distance of 53.86 feet to a point on the
southerly right-of-way of Cedar Road,
said point being 48.50' Rt of the Station 7+49.53 on the centerline of
Cedar Road; to the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING, and containing more or
less 0.4026 acres (17,538 sq. ft.) and
subject to all legal easements, restrictions, reservations, conditions and
right-of-way of previous record;
Basis of Bearing for this legal
description is South 82° 48' 27" East
as the centerline of Cedar Road as evidenced by monuments found and is
the same as calculated and reproduced based on using Ohio State
Plane Coordinate System, North Zone
(NAD83-1995) Datum by ties to the
O.D.O.T. CORS Network using GRAF
and are for the purpose of indicating
variations;
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of right-of-way of
Cedar Road Bridge No. 229 in the City
of Cleveland, as shown on the Centerline Plat of the Right-of-Way Plans
for Cedar Road Bridge No. 229 recorded in Volume 378, Page 83 of Cuyahoga County Records.
This description was prepared
under
the
supervision
of
and
reviewed by Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058
from a survey made under the supervision of Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058 for
Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. in
conjunction with the Cuyahoga County Plan Cedar Road Bridge No. 229.

The City Record

46
PARCEL #1-T2
CEDAR ROAD
BRIDGE NO. 229
M-5021
TEMPORARY EASEMENT FOR
BRIDGE REHABILITATION
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
being part of the Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 411 and being 0.0080 acres
TEMPORARY EASEMENT #1-T2 for
Bridge No. 229 located within a record
parcel of land as conveyed to The City
of Cleveland by deed dated April 12,
1897, as recorded in Deed Vol. 660, Pg.
288 of Cuyahoga County Records and
more
particularly
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin in a
monument box found at an angle
point on the original centerline of
Cedar Road, said point being at Station 9+31.47, 50.50' Rt from the current centerline of right-of-way of
Cedar Road as shown on the Centerline Schematic Plan (Sheet 2 of 5) of
the Right-of–Way Plans for Cedar
Road;
Thence North 07° 11' 33" East,
along a line a distance of 50.50 feet to
a point, said point being at Station
9+31.47 on the centerline of said
Cedar Road;
Thence North 82° 48' 27" West, a
distance of 112.17 feet along the centerline of Cedar Road to a point; said
point being at Station 8+19.30 on the
centerline of Cedar Road;
Thence South 07° 11' 33" West, a
distance of 48.50 feet to a point, said
point being at Station 48.50' Rt of Station 8+19.30 on the centerline of
Cedar Road; and the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING of the herein described
tract of being;
Thence North 82° 48' 27" West, a
distance of 25.07 feet along the
southerly right-of-way of Cedar Road
to a point, said point being 48.50' Rt
of Station 7+94.23 on the centerline of
Cedar Road;
Thence South 17° 47' 15" East, a distance of 23.56 feet across subject parcel to a point on the southerly property line; said point being 69.85' Rt of
Station 8+04.18 on the centerline of
Cedar Road;
Thence South 82° 51' 07" East, a distance of 7.60 feet along the southerly
property line of subject parcel to a
point; said point being 69.85' Rt of
Station 8+11.78 on the centerline of
Cedar Road;

Thence North 26° 35' 43" East, a distance of 22.63 feet along the easterly
property line of subject parcel to the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING, and
containing more or less 0.0080 acres
(348 sq. ft.) and subject to all legal
easements, restrictions, reservations,
conditions and right-of-way of previous record;
Basis of Bearing for this legal
description is South 82° 48' 27" East
as the centerline of Cedar Road as evidenced by monuments found and is
the same as calculated and reproduced based on using Ohio State
Plane Coordinate System, North Zone
(NAD83-1995) Datum by ties to the
O.D.O.T. CORS Network using GRAF
and are for the purpose of indicating
variations;
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of right-of-way of
Cedar Road Bridge No. 229 in the City
of Cleveland, as shown on the Centerline Plat of the Right-of-Way Plans
for Cedar Road Bridge No. 229 recorded in Volume 378, Page 83 of Cuyahoga County Records
This description was prepared
under
the
supervision
of
and
reviewed by Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058
from a survey made under the supervision of Adam D. Treat P.S. #8058 for
Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. in
conjunction with the Cuyahoga County Plan Cedar Road Bridge No. 229.
Legal Descriptions approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section
Section 3. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the abovedescribed non-exclusive easement
interests and the exclusive temporary
easements to Cuyahoga County at a
price of $1.00 and other valuable consideration, which is determined to be
fair market value.
Section 4. That the purpose of the
easements shall be for the rehabilitation of Doan Brook Culvert under
Cedar Road, and known as their
Cedar Road Bridge No. 229 Project.
Section 5. That the duration of the
easements shall be perpetual; that the
duration of the temporary easements
shall be until the rehabilitation of the
Doan Brook Culvert under Cedar
Road is completed; that the easements and temporary easements may
include reasonable right of entry

December 9, 2015
rights to the City; that the easements
and temporary easements shall not be
assignable without the consent of the
Director of Public Works; that the
easements and temporary easements
shall require that Cuyahoga County
provide reasonable insurance, and
pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 6. That the conveyances
referred to above shall be made by
official deeds of easement and official deeds of temporary easement prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Works
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The deeds of easement and the deeds
of temporary easement shall contain
any additional terms and conditions
as are required to protect the interest
of the City. The Directors of Public
Works and Law are authorized to execute any other documents, including
without limitation, contracts for right
of entry, as may be necessary to effect
this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed November 30, 2015.
Effective December 2, 2015.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, December 7, 2015
9:00 a.m.

Committee of the Whole: Present:
Kelley, Chair; Brady, Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Cummins, Dow, K. Johnson, Kazy,
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed, Zone. Authorized Absence: J.
Johnson.
Wednesday, December 9, 2015
10:00 a.m.

Safety Committee: Present: Zone,
Chair; Cimperman, Kazy, Keane,
Authorized
Mitchell,
Polensek.
Absence: Conwell, Vice Chair.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Amend Ord. No. 1415-15 — Holiday Food Gift Card Program — food gift cards to low-to-moderate
income residents — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation — Community
Development (Ward(s) 08, 10 CRF) (O 1523-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 1452-15 — Rental Information Center and Tenant Advocacy Program — housing
services — Cleveland Tenants Organization — Community Development Department
(Ward(s) 05, 07 CRF) (O 1522-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 658-15 and Ord. No. 1132-15 — West 25th St., 3109 — Be Next Awning & Graphics,
Inc. 50/50 Project — job creation — Economic Development (Ward
14 CRF) (O 1527-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approve Assessment Equalization Board Report — Kamms Special Improvement
District (SID) — assessments — City Planning Commission (Ward 17) (O 1447-15) . . . . . . .

1898

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

December 9, 2015

The City Record

Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan — redevelopment of Sites A, B, and C —
Cumberland TCC, LLC — TIF agreement — CMSD — Economic Development (Ward 03)
(O 1400-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan — redevelopment of Sites D, E, and F —
Cumberland TCC, LLC, — TIF agreement — CMSD — Economic Development (Ward 03)
(O 1401-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Intergroup Relations Project — International Community Council — Worldwide
Intercultural Network — Community Development (Ward(s) 14, 03, and 11 CRF)
(O 1531-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Theatre/Thomas Jefferson International Newcomers Academy High
School Performance Project — providing theatrical educational and training to
Cleveland high school students — Cleveland Public Theatre — Community Development
(O 1524-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dealer Tire relocation to the Victory Center site — Euclid Ave., 7012 — Dealer Tire, LLC, —
grant agreement — Economic Development (Ward 05) (O 1407-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eastside Departments Group Enforcement Agency — mutual aid agreement — reciprocal field
force services to deal with crowd management, SWAT unit services, and use of police
equipment — CHIA — Safety Department (O 1232-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 10730 — acquire and re-convey — First Interstate Properties — TIF — Economic
Development Department — Purchases and Supplies Division (Ward 06) (O 1468-15) . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 10730 — TIF Agreement — First Interstate Properties, Ltd., — One University
Circle project — Cleveland Metropolitan School District — Economic Development
Department (Ward 06) (O 1518-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 6815 — forgivable loan agreement (VPI) — The Beauty Shoppe LLC, — economic
development assistance — Economic Development Department (Ward 07) (O 1445-15) . . . .
Euclid Ave., 7012 — acquire and re-convey — Victory Midtown, LLC — Economic Development —
Finance Department — Purchases and Supplies Division (Ward 05) (O 1408-15) . . . . . . . . . .
GED Preparation and Basic Education Program — Seeds of Literacy — Community
Development (Ward(s) 02, 05, 14 CRF) (O 1529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Metroparks agreement for construct and maintain greening improvements to Canal Basin Park
Project — Works Department (O 204-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Monroe Street Cemetery Project — provide signage to identify persons of historical
significance — Monroe Street Cemetery Foundation — Community Development
(Ward 03 CRF) (O 1526-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax-sharing agreement with the City of Shaker Heights and the City of Cleveland — Boundary
adjustment — City Planning Commission — Economic Development (O 1446-15) . . . . . . . . .
Victory Midtown, LLC — contract — Euclid Ave., 7012 — Victory Center site — demolition
loan — Economic Development (O 1409-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Victory Midtown, LLC — Victory Center site — Euclid Ave., 7012 — economic
development assistance — grant Economic Development (Ward 05) (O 1411-15) . . . . . . . . . .
W. 25th Street & Detroit Avenue project — Snavely Property Company LLC / w25d commercial,
LLC — redevelopment of property — TIF agreement — CMSD — Economic Development
Department (Ward 03) (O 1494-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 3rd St., 2910 — forgivable loan agreement (VPI) — economic development assistance —
Empire Paving, Inc., — Economic Development Department (Ward 03) (O 1440-15) . . . . . . .
West 3rd St., 2910 (city-owned property) — purchase agreement and / or option to purchase
agreement — Empire Paving, Inc. — Purchases and Supplies Division — Economic
Development Department (Ward 03) (O 1441-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westshore Enforcement Bureau — mutual aid agreement — City of Cleveland — reciprocal
bomb squad and SWAT unit services — CHIA (O 1227-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Works Department — deeds of easement — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for
Otter Park — gift of public improvement (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Young Achievers Choice Program — after-school educational and social activities for
Cleveland youths — Giving Life Foundation — Community Development (Ward 08 CRF)
(O 1525-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

47

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1887

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1890

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1858
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1857

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866

AIDS
World AIDS Day — recognize Dec. 1st. — support Greater Cleveland HIV/AIDS Community
(R 1495-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880

Appreciation
Doggett, William B. (R 1541-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Appropriations
Temporary — Year 2016 — Finance Department (O 1467-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

Assessment Equalization Board
Approve Report — Kamms Special Improvement District (SID) — assessments — City
Planning Commission (Ward 17) (O 1447-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

1899

The City Record

48

December 9, 2015

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Exterior terminal building facade and terminal ticketing lobby rehabilitation — approve
subcontractor — Contract #PI2015*022 per BOC Res. 72-15 — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 480-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Board of Control — Cleveland Municipal Court
Kodak Ngenuity 9090DC scanners — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Harris, Mackessy &
Brennan, Inc. — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 477-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Additional technical support and maintenance for Ventyx Customer Suite, Service Suite and
Asset Suite — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Hansen Banner, LLC — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 478-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Board of Control — Community Development Department
West 29th Street, 2178 (Ward 3) — PPN 007-09-034 — B.R. Knez Construction, Inc.
(BOC Res. 483-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1877
West 6th Street (Ward 3) — PPN 004-18-041 — Jasmine Alexis Boutros and Akram Boutros
(BOC Res. 484-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1877

Board of Control — Finance Department
Kodak Ngenuity 9090DC scanners — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Harris, Mackessy &
Brennan, Inc. — Cleveland Municipal Court (BOC Res. 477-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products — Report for September, 2015 — Division
of Purchases and Supplies (BOC Res. 476-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
West 29th Street, 2178 (Ward 3) — PPN 007-09-034 — B.R. Knez Construction, Inc.
(BOC Res. 483-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1877
West 6th Street (Ward 3) — PPN 004-18-041 — Jasmine Alexis Boutros and Akram Boutros
(BOC Res. 484-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1877

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Various charging equipment — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Fulton Armature, Inc. — Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 482-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1877

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Automotive parts — per Ord. 225-15 to Concord Road Equipment Mfg., Inc. (BOC Res. 481-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1877
Exterior terminal building facade and terminal ticketing lobby rehabilitation — approve
subcontractor — Contract #PI2015*022 per BOC Res. 72-15 — Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 480-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Additional technical support and maintenance for Ventyx Customer Suite, Service Suite and
Asset Suite — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Hansen Banner, LLC — Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 478-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Exterior terminal building facade and terminal ticketing lobby rehabilitation — approve
subcontractor — Contract #PI2015*022 per BOC Res. 72-15 — Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 480-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Additional technical support and maintenance for Ventyx Customer Suite, Service Suite and
Asset Suite — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Hansen Banner, LLC — Division of Cleveland
Public Power (BOC Res. 478-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876
Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) Instrument and Appurtenances —
per C.O. Sec. 129.28 to Thermo Electron North America, LLC — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 479-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Various charging equipment — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Fulton Armature, Inc. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 482-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1877

1900

December 9, 2015

The City Record

49

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products — Report for September, 2015 — Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 476-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Automotive parts — per Ord. 225-15 to Concord Road Equipment Mfg., Inc. — Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 481-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1877
Kodak Ngenuity 9090DC scanners — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Harris, Mackessy &
Brennan, Inc. — Dept. of Finance, Cleveland Municipal Court (BOC Res. 477-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876
Various charging equipment — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Fulton Armature, Inc. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 482-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1877

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) Instrument and Appurtenances —
per C.O. Sec. 129.28 to Thermo Electron North America, LLC — Division of Water, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 479-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Board of Control — Water Division
Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) Instrument and Appurtenances —
per C.O. Sec. 129.28 to Thermo Electron North America, LLC — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 479-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1876

Board of Elections
Civilian Police Review Board — amend Section 115-2 — March 15, 2016 special election
(O 1530-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1862

Board of Park Commissioners
Metroparks agreement for construct and maintain greening improvements to Canal Basin Park
Project — Works Department (O 204-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadview Road, 2144 (Ward 12) — Reeda Nina LLC, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
12/7/15 (Cal. 15-226) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Road, 12523 (Ward 6) — Howard Levine, owner — appeal postponed to 1/19/16
on 12/7/15 (Cal. 15-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Calcutta Road, 15410 (Ward 8) — Amer Abuaun, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
12/7/15 (Cal. 15-241) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Avenue, 3815 (Ward 14) — Lorna VanHandel, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
12/7/15 (Cal. 15-243) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 1898 (Ward 6) — Mark Angle Builders, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 12/7/15 (Cal. 15-237) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Edgewater Drive, 11015 (Ward 15) — Brian and Heather Lazar, owners — appeal granted and
adopted on 12/7/15 (Cal. 15-245) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 9500 (Ward 6) — Cleveland Clinic, owner — appeal postponed to 12/21/15
on 12/7/15 (Cal. 15-248) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairville Avenue, 18711 (Ward 17) — Gerald and Kathleen Nusbaum, owners — appeal granted
and adopted on 12/7/15 (Cal. 15-234). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th Street, 2631 (Ward 3) — Ohio Awning LLC, owner — appeal postponed to 1/4/16
on 12/7/15 (Cal. 15-250) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th Street, 1958 (Ward 15) — Detroit Shoreway, owner — appeal heard on
12/7/15 (Cal. 15-251) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th Street, 1962 (Ward 15) — Detroit Shoreway, owner — appeal heard on
12/7/15 (Cal. 15-252) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd Street, 1345 (Ward 15) — John C. Boehm, owner — appeal postponed to 2/8/16 on
12/7/15 (Cal. 15-249) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 149th Street, 3658 (Ward 2) — Tracey Pratt, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/21/15
(Cal. 15-258) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
Hosmer Avenue, 5919 (Ward 12) — Pratt Properties, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 12/21/15 (Cal. 15-259) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878
Payne Avenue, 3003 (Ward 7) — Porpan Lee, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/21/15
(Cal. 15-253) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1878

Building And Housing Department
Exterior Walls and Appurtenances — enact new Chapter 3143 (O 1533-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1863

1901

The City Record

50

December 9, 2015

Burke Lakefront Airport
Terminal space — lease agreement — Ultimate JetCharters, LLC dba Ultimate Air Shuttle,
LLC (O 1360-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

Capital Projects
Amend Ord. No. 736-01 — West 3rd St. ramp (property located under) — grant easement — F.C.
Southridge Corp. (Ward 03) (O 1517-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 18th St. — encroach into right-of-way — ADA ramp and railing — The Salvation Army —
City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 1515-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th St., Prospect Ave., East 6th St., and Huron Rd. — encroach into right-of-way —
building foundations and area ways — Gateway Huron LLC — City Planning Commission
(Ward 03) (O 1488-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th St. (Broadway Ave. to Superior Ave.) — repairing and resurfacing — consent and
cause payment — Ohio Department of Transportation (O.DOT) (Wards 05, 07)
(O 1448-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eugene Pl., N.W. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1362-15). . . . . . .
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — petroleum pipelines —
Buckeye Partners, L.P. (Ward 03) (O 1514-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leonard St., — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1363-15) . . . . . . . . . . .
Ontario St. — encroach into right-of-way — frost-free slabs and door swings, foundation
footings, metal cornice overhang, directional monument signs, snow melt system at
entrance, bike racks and canopy overhang — Cuyahoga County (O 1355-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 09)
(R 1513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle, Euclid Ave., Stearns Rd. and Deering Ave. — encroach into right-of-way —
maintaining building, roadway and streetscape improvements as part of the One
University Circle Luxury Apartments Project — One UC Partners, LLC — City Planning
Commission (O 1356-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (R 1512-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vincent Avenue, N.E. — encroach into right-of-way — utility vault — Corning Place Ohio,
LLC — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1231-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 24th St., — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1364-15). . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1858
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

Cemeteries Division
Cemetery Rates — amend Section 131.42 — Park Maintenance and Properties — Works
Department (O 1483-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
Woodland Cemetery — waive the setting fees — George and Julia Hayes Memorial — Works
Department (O 1519-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865

Charter
Civilian Police Review Board — amend Section 115-2 — March 15, 2016 special election —
Cuyahoga County Board of Elections (O 1530-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1862

City of Cleveland Bids
Crane and Hoist Inspection and Maintenance (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per Ord. 328-15 — bid due January 14, 2016 (advertised 12/9/2015
and 12/16/2015). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase of Hauling and Disposing of Water Plant Residuals — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 645-15 — bid due January 14, 2016 (advertised
12/9/2015 and 12/16/2015) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quicklime — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 —
bid due January 14, 2016 (advertised 12/9/2015 and 12/16/2015). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitating and Relining Sewers at Various Locations (Re-bid) — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 129.291 — bid due
January 15, 2016 (advertised 12/9/2015 and 12/16/2015). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879

City Planning Commission
Approve Assessment Equalization Board Report — Kamms Special Improvement
District (SID) — assessments (Ward 17) (O 1447-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., (between Quigley Rd. and Lorain Ave.) — remove mapped setbacks (Ward 03)
(O 1371-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
Use District (Ward 15) (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th St., Prospect Ave., East 6th St., and Huron Rd. — encroach into right-of-way —
building foundations and area ways — Gateway Huron LLC — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 03) (O 1488-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 10730 — acquire and re-convey — First Interstate Properties — TIF — Economic
Development Department — Purchases and Supplies Division (Ward 06) (O 1468-15) . . . .
Eugene Pl., N.W. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1362-15) . . . . . . . .

1902

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1864

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

December 9, 2015

The City Record

51

Hookah Lounges and Vapor Lounges — amend Section 347.121 (O 978-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leonard St., — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1363-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09)
(R 1513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax-sharing agreement with the City of Shaker Heights and the City of Cleveland — Boundary
adjustment — Economic Development (O 1446-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle, Euclid Ave., Stearns Rd. and Deering Ave. — encroach into right-of-way —
maintaining building, roadway and streetscape improvements as part of the One
University Circle Luxury Apartments Project — One UC Partners, LLC — Capital
Projects Office (O 1356-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 07) (R 1512-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vincent Avenue, N.E. — encroach into right-of-way — utility vault — Corning Place Ohio,
LLC — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1231-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 24th St., — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1881
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Amend title and Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. 416-15 — purchase, lease, or lease with option to
purchases — extendable turret vehicles (O 1294-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
Eastside Departments Group Enforcement Agency — mutual aid agreement — reciprocal field
force services to deal with crowd management, SWAT unit services, and use of police
equipment — Safety Department (O 1232-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882
Westshore Enforcement Bureau — mutual aid agreement — City of Cleveland — reciprocal
bomb squad and SWAT unit services (O 1227-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882

Cleveland Metropolitan Park District (Metroparks)
Metroparks agreement for construct and maintain greening improvements to Canal Basin
Park Project — Works Department (O 204-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880

Cleveland Metropolitan School District (CMSD)
Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan — redevelopment of Sites A, B, and C —
Cumberland TCC, LLC — TIF agreement — Economic Development (Ward
03) (O 1400-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan — redevelopment of Sites D, E, and F —
Cumberland TCC, LLC, — TIF agreement — Economic Development (Ward 03)
(O 1401-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 10730 — TIF Agreement — First Interstate Properties, Ltd., — One University
Circle project — Economic Development Department (Ward 06) (O 1518-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 25th Street & Detroit Avenue project — Snavely Property Company LLC / w25d commercial,
LLC — redevelopment of property — TIF agreement — Economic Development
Department (Ward 03) (O 1494-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1887

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1890
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1858

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Customer Care and Billing System — contracts — SourceLink, Ohio LLC — Water Division —
Utilities Department (O 1322-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
Utility bills, inserts, reminders, and delinquent notices — design, distribute, print —
on-line bill payment services — renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-153 — Kubra Data
Transfer Ltd. — Water Division (O 1321-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
Information Technology infrastructure upgrade IT — contracts — Utilities Department
(O 1325-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

Codified Ordinances
Cemetery Rates — amend Section 131.42 — Park Maintenance and Properties — Works
Department (O 1483-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exterior Walls and Appurtenances — enact new Chapter 3143 — Building and Housing
Department (O 1533-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hookah Lounges and Vapor Lounges — amend Section 347.121 (O 978-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prohibit sale of cigarettes, tobacco products and alternative nicotine products, including
electronic cigarettes to children / young adults under 21 yrs. old — amend Section
607.15 (O 737-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend section 543.02 — amend Ord. 111-15 —
Utilities Department (O 1318-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Smoke Detectors, Smoke Alarms, and Carbon Monoxide Alarms — amend Sections 392.01
to 392.08 and 392.99 — enact new Section 392.021 — Safety Department (O 1528-15) . . . . .
Water rates — Affordability Programs — Fees and Charges — amend Section 535.04, 535.05,
and 535.06 — Utilities Department — Water Division (O 1303-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1863
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1881

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1860
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Cleveland Police Patrolmen’s Association (Civilian) — approve collective bargaining
agreement — amend Section 10 of Ord. 323-15, as amended — Finance Department —
Human Resource Department (O 1480-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

1903

The City Record

52

December 9, 2015

International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE), Local 27 — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Section 47 of Ord. 323-15 , as amended — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 1481-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

Community Development
Amend Ord. No. 1415-15 — Holiday Food Gift Card Program — food gift cards to low-to-moderate
income residents — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation (Ward(s) 08, 10 CRF)
(O 1523-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 1452-15 — Rental Information Center and Tenant Advocacy Program — housing
services — Cleveland Tenants Organization — agreement (Ward(s) 05,07 CRF)
(O 1522-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Intergroup Relations Project — International Community Council — Worldwide
Intercultural Network — agreement (Ward(s) 14, 03, and 11 CRF) (O 1531-15) . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Theatre/Thomas Jefferson International Newcomers Academy High
School Performance Project — providing theatrical educational and training to
Cleveland high school students — Cleveland Public Theatre — agreement (O 1524-15) . . . .
GED Preparation and Basic Education Program — Seeds of Literacy — agreement (Ward(s)
02, 05, 14 CRF) (O 1529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Trust Fund Program implementation (O 1437-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Monroe Street Cemetery Project — provide signage to identify persons of historical
significance — Monroe Street Cemetery Foundation — agreement (Ward 03 CRF)
(O 1526-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Young Achievers Choice Program — after-school educational and social activities for
Cleveland youths — Giving Life Foundation — agreement (Ward 08 CRF) (O 1525-15) . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866

Condolences
Catania, Sammy (R 1535-15) . . . . . . . .
Corrigan, Judge John E. (R 1544-15) .
Fleshler, Bertram (R 1536-15). . . . . . .
Johnson, Jr., David (R 1542-15) . . . . .
Mulgrew, John P. (R 1545-15) . . . . . . .
O’Neill, Edward (R 1543-15) . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855

Congratulations
Vertosnik, Alex (R 1538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
Vertosnik, IV, Louis (R 1537-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Contracts
Amend Ord. No. 1452-15 — Rental Information Center and Tenant Advocacy Program —
housing services — Cleveland Tenants Organization — agreement — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 05,07 CRF) (O 1522-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 226-15 — Parking revenue control equipment and software with reporting
features for the Willard Park Garage and the East Gateway Garage — Works Department
(O 1351-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect(s) 1 &2 of Ord. 848-15 — Heavy — duty snow removal equipment, snow
removal vehicles, multi-purpose trucks and operators (O 1338-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend title and Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. 416-15 — purchase, lease, or lease with option to
purchases — extendable turret vehicles — CHIA (O 1294-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Assistance to Firefighters Grant, FY 2014 — U.S. Department of Homeland Security — Grants
(O 1475-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Aurora Road Pump Station — public improvement — Water Division — Utilities
Department (O 1369-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Baldwin, Crown, Morgan and Nottingham Water Works plants — public improvement —
improving chemical, HVAC, and electrical systems and modifying and repairing roofing —
Water Division — Utilities Department (O 1406-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bryant Ave., East 85th St., East 150th St., Rocky River Dr., West 48th St., and the West
134th Street Area Sewer Projects — public improvement — WPC — Utilities Department
(O 1292-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Rd., 6555 — forgivable loan (VPI) — Abeona Therapeutics, Inc., — EDA Title IX
loan — economic development assistance — Economic Development Department
(Ward 05) (O 1439-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program — Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Grant,
FY 2015 — Cleveland Rape Crisis Center — sexual assault advocate — County Public
Safety and Justice Services (O 1435-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Intergroup Relations Project — International Community Council — Worldwide
Intercultural Network — agreement — Community Development (Ward(s) 14, 03, and 11
CRF) (O 1531-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Thermal LLC change name to Corix Infrastructures (US) Inc. — amend contracts —
Finance Department — Utilities Department (O 1430-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Customer Care and Billing System — contracts — SourceLink, Ohio LLC — Water Division —
Cleveland Public Power — Utilities Department (O 1322-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution water mains — cleaning and lining, structural lining, and replacement, 2016 —
Water Division — Utilities Department (O 1366-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1904

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884

December 9, 2015

The City Record

Doors, overhead — Finance Department (O 1485-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Trust Fund Program implementation — Community Development Department
(O 1437-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Information Technology infrastructure upgrade IT — contracts — Utilities Department
(O 1325-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
In-line baggage system project — amend Contract No. CT 3001 PS 2013-042 — Vic
Thompson Company — Port Control Department (O 1487-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internet provider and subscriber services agreement (O 1359-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Grant, FY 2015 — U.S. Department of Justice —
Grants — Frontline Services — Safety Department (O 1434-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Manage the Gateway East Garage — professional services- Works Department (O 1260-15) . . . . .
Metroparks agreement for construct and maintain greening improvements to Canal Basin Park
Project — Works Department (O 204-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Monroe Street Cemetery Project — provide signage to identify persons of historical
significance — Monroe Street Cemetery Foundation — agreement — Community
Development (Ward 03 CRF) (O 1526-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Water Works Plant — public improvement — improve site access and security —
Water Division — Utilities Department (O 1365-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New Boosted Third High System in Richfield, Ohio — acquire real property and easement —
public improvement — professional services — Utilities Department (O 1368-15) . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle Customer Care & Billing System — renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-096 — Five Point
Partners, LLC nka Ernst & Young U.S. LLP — Water Division — Utilities
Department (O 1357-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle customer care and billing system hosting, administer — IBM Corporation —
renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-97 — Utilities Department (O 1320-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement grinding for resurfacing streets — Streets Division — Works Department (O 1405-15) . .
Rehabilitating automated controls at City water work plants — professional services —
public improvement — Utilities Department (O 1358-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tires, transfer and disposal — Waste Collection and Disposal Division — Works Department
(O 1442-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Medicaid program payments — Grants — Health Department — Ohio
Department of Health (O 1404-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TruePoint Solutions, LLC — Accela software platform (implement & manage) — amendment
to Contract No. CT 1503 PS 2013-81 — Finance Department (O 1429-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trunk Main Renewal Program; 2016 to 2020 — repairing or replacing transmission
mains, valves, and appurtenances — public improvements — Water Division — Utilities
Department (O 1367-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utility bills, inserts, reminders, and delinquent notices — design, distribute, print —
on-line bill payment services — renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-153 — Kubra Data
Transfer Ltd. — Cleveland Public Power — Water Division (O 1321-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles equipment and accessories, 2015 — Works Department (O 1167-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Victory Midtown, LLC — Euclid Ave., 7012 — Victory Center site — demolition loan —
Economic Development (O 1409-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
WPC — Capital Improvement Plan — develop, manage and implement program policies —
professional services — Utilities Department (O 1290-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
WPC — Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) — evaluate and assess existing sewer system —
professional service- Utilities Department (O 1291-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Young Achievers Choice Program — after-school educational and social activities for
Cleveland youths — Giving Life Foundation — agreement — Community Development
(Ward 08 CRF) (O 1525-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

53
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1880

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866

Cuyahoga County
Cedar Rd. Bridge Project over Doan Brook — temporary and permanent easements — Works
Department (Ward 10) (O 1438-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2016-2018 — charge and accept fees — Cuyahoga County
Board of Health — Grants — Health Department (O 1403-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

Easements
Amend Ord. No. 736-01 — West 3rd St. ramp (property located under) — F.C. Southridge Corp. —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1517-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1858
Cedar Rd. Bridge Project over Doan Brook — temporary and permanent easements —
Cuyahoga County — Works Department (Ward 10) (O 1438-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
Works Department — deeds of easement — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for
Otter Park — gift of public improvement (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1857

Economic Development Department
Amend Ord. 463-14 — Euclid Ave., 7012 (Victory Building) — HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan —
economic development assistance — Victory Midtown, LLC, (Ward 05) (O 1410-15) . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 658-15 and Ord. No. 1132-15 — West 25th St., 3109 — Be Next Awning & Graphics,
Inc. 50/50 Project — job creation — agreement (Ward 14 CRF) (O 1527-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend title & Section(s) 1 and 2 of Ord. 1451-14 — EDI Empowerment Zone Grant — The Beauty
Shoppe, LLC (Ward 07) (O 1444-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Rd., 6555 — forgivable loan (VPI) — Abeona Therapeutics, Inc., — EDA Title IX
loan — economic development assistance (Ward 05) (O 1439-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1905

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

The City Record

54

December 9, 2015

Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan — redevelopment of Sites A, B, and C —
Cumberland TCC, LLC — TIF agreement — CMSD (Ward 03) (O 1400-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan — redevelopment of Sites D, E, and F —
Cumberland TCC, LLC, — TIF agreement — CMSD (Ward 03) (O 1401-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dealer Tire relocation to the Victory Center site — Euclid Ave., 7012 — Dealer Tire, LLC, —
grant agreement (Ward 05) (O 1407-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 10730 — acquire and re-convey — First Interstate Properties — TIF — Purchases
and Supplies Division (Ward 06) (O 1468-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 10730 — TIF Agreement — First Interstate Properties, Ltd., — One University
Circle project — Cleveland Metropolitan School District (Ward 06) (O 1518-15) . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 6815 — forgivable loan agreement (VPI) — The Beauty Shoppe LLC, — economic
development assistance (Ward 07) (O 1445-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 7012 — acquire and re-convey — Victory Midtown, LLC — Finance Department —
Purchases and Supplies Division (Ward 05) (O 1408-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax-sharing agreement with the City of Shaker Heights and the City of Cleveland — Boundary
adjustment — City Planning Commission (O 1446-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Victory Midtown, LLC — contract — Euclid Ave., 7012 — Victory Center site — demolition
loan (O 1409-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Victory Midtown, LLC — Victory Center site — Euclid Ave., 7012 — economic
development assistance — grant agreement (Ward 05) (O 1411-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 25th Street & Detroit Avenue project — Snavely Property Company LLC / w25d commercial,
LLC — redevelopment of property — TIF agreement — CMSD (Ward 03) (O 1494-15) . . . . .
West 3rd St., 2910 — forgivable loan agreement (VPI) — economic development assistance —
Empire Paving, Inc., (Ward 03) (O 1440-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 3rd St., 2910 (city-owned property) — purchase agreement and / or option to purchase
agreement — Empire Paving, Inc. — Purchases and Supplies Division (Ward 03)
(O 1441-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1890
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1858
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

Encroachments
East 18th St. — right-of-way — ADA ramp and railing — The Salvation Army — Capital
Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 1515-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th St., Prospect Ave., East 6th St., and Huron Rd. — right-of-way — building
foundations and area ways — Gateway Huron LLC — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1488-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — right-of-way — petroleum pipelines — Buckeye
Partners, L.P. — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1514-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ontario St. — right-of-way — frost-free slabs and door swings, foundation footings, metal
cornice overhang, directional monument signs, snow melt system
at entrance, bike racks and canopy overhang — Cuyahoga County — Capital
Projects Office (O 1355-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle, Euclid Ave., Stearns Rd. and Deering Ave. — encroach into right-of-way —
maintaining building, roadway and streetscape improvements as part of the One
University Circle Luxury Apartments Project — One UC Partners, LLC — Capital
Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 1356-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vincent Avenue, N.E. — right-of-way — utility vault — Corning Place Ohio, LLC — Capital
Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1231-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

Finance Department
Appropriations — Temporary — Year 2016 (O 1467-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Police Patrolmen’s Association (Civilian) — approve collective bargaining
agreement — amend Section 10 of Ord. 323-15, as amended — Human Resource Department
(O 1480-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Thermal LLC change name to Corix Infrastructures (US) Inc. — amend contracts —
Utilities Department (O 1430-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Doors, overhead (O 1485-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 7012 — acquire and re-convey — Victory Midtown, LLC — Economic Development —
Purchases and Supplies Division (Ward 05) (O 1408-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE), Local 27 — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Section 47 of Ord. 323-15 , as amended —
Human Resources Department (O 1481-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — Section 43 — amend Ord. 323-15, as amended — Human Resources
Department (O 1482-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TruePoint Solutions, LLC — Accela software platform (implement & manage) — amendment to
Contract No. CT 1503 PS 2013-81 (O 1429-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

Grants
Amend title & Section(s) 1 and 2 of Ord. 1451-14 — EDI Empowerment Zone Grant — The
Beauty Shoppe, LLC — Economic Development Department (Ward 07) (O 1444-15) . . . . . . .
Assistance to Firefighters Grant, FY 2014 — U.S. Department of Homeland Security (O 1475-15)
Boys and Girls Club Grant, 2015 — St. Luke’s Foundation — Works Department (O 1353-15) . . . .
Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Local Solicitation, FY 2015 — Bureau of Justice
Assistance — Safety Department — U.S. Department of Justice (O 1476-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program — Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Grant,
FY 2015 — Cleveland Rape Crisis Center — contracts — sexual assault advocate —
County Public Safety and Justice Services (O 1435-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1906

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

December 9, 2015

The City Record

55

Construction Zone Grant, FY 2015 — Ohio Department of Public Safety (O 1432-15) . . . . . . . . . . .
Dealer Tire relocation to the Victory Center site — Euclid Ave., 7012 — Dealer Tire, LLC, —
grant agreement — Economic Development (Ward 05) (O 1407-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2016-2018 — charge and accept fees — Cuyahoga County
Board of Health — Health Department (O 1403-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Impaired Driving Enforcement Program (IDEP) Grant, FY 2016 — Ohio Department of Public
Safety (O 1433-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Grant, FY 2015 — U.S. Department of Justice —
Frontline Services — contracts — Safety Department (O 1434-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Drug Use Prevention Program, 2015-16 — Ohio Attorney General — Safety
Department (O 1474-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) Grant, FY 2016 — Ohio Department of Public
Safety (O 1436-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant, FY 14 — U.S. Department
of Homeland Security — Safety Department (O 1431-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG), FY 15 — Northern Ohio Violent Crime
Consortium (NOVCC) Program — Kent State University — Ohio Office of Criminal
Justice — Safety Department (O 1478-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, FY 15 — Northern Ohio Law Enforcement
Task Force (NOLETF) Program — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services — Safety
Department (O 1477-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Medicaid program payments — Health Department — Ohio Department of
Health (O 1404-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Victory Midtown, LLC — Victory Center site — Euclid Ave., 7012 — economic
development assistance — grant agreement — Economic Development (Ward 05)
(O 1411-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) grant, FY 2015 — Cleveland Domestic Violence
Program — County Public Safety and Justice Services — Safety Department (O 1479-15) . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

Health Department
Declaring that the City of Cleveland will strive for a tobacco free workforce
by 2017 (R 669-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2016-2018 — charge and accept fees — Cuyahoga County
Board of Health — Grants (O 1403-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prohibit sale of cigarettes, tobacco products and alternative nicotine products, including
electronic cigarettes to children / young adults under 21 yrs. old — amend Section
607.15 (O 737-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title X Program — Medicaid program payments — Grants — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1404-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

Holidays
Amend Ord. No. 1415-15 — Holiday Food Gift Card Program — food gift cards to low-to-moderate
income residents — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation — Community
Development (Ward(s) 08, 10 CRF) (O 1523-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865

Housing And Urban Development (HUD)
Amend Ord. 463-14 — Euclid Ave., 7012 (Victory Building) — HUD 108 Empowerment Zone
loan — economic development assistance — Victory Midtown, LLC, — Economic
Development (Ward 05) (O 1410-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

Human Resources Department
Cleveland Police Patrolmen’s Association (Civilian) — approve collective bargaining
agreement — amend Section 10 of Ord. 323-15, as amended — Finance Department
(O 1480-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring that the City of Cleveland will strive for a tobacco free workforce
by 2017 (R 669-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE), Local 27 — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Section 47 of Ord. 323-15 , as amended — Finance
Department (O 1481-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — Section 43 — amend Ord. 323-15, as amended — Finance
Department (O 1482-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

Lease Agreement
Terminal space — Ultimate JetCharters, LLC dba Ultimate Air Shuttle, LLC — Burke Lakefront
Airport (O 1360-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

Leases
Amend title and Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. 416-15 — purchase, lease, or lease with option to
purchases — extendable turret vehicles — CHIA (O 1294-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

1907

The City Record

56

December 9, 2015

Liquor Permits
Euclid Ave., 8614 — new application (Ward 06) (F 1534-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
Lorain Ave., 16700 (1st. and 2nd fls., w/end) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward
17) (R 1521-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
St. Clair Ave., 10502 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1010-15 (Ward 09)
(R 1520-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867

Loans
Amend Ord. 463-14 — Euclid Ave., 7012 (Victory Building) — HUD 108 Empowerment Zone
loan — economic development assistance — Victory Midtown, LLC, — Economic
Development (Ward 05) (O 1410-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Rd., 6555 — forgivable loan (VPI) — Abeona Therapeutics, Inc., — EDA Title IX
loan — economic development assistance — Economic Development Department (Ward 05)
(O 1439-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 6815 — forgivable loan agreement (VPI) — The Beauty Shoppe LLC, — economic
development assistance — Economic Development Department (Ward 07) (O 1445-15) . . . .
Victory Midtown, LLC — contract — Euclid Ave., 7012 — Victory Center site — demolition
loan — Economic Development (O 1409-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 3rd St., 2910 — forgivable loan agreement (VPI) — economic development assistance —
Empire Paving, Inc., — Economic Development Department (Ward 03) (O 1440-15) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD)
Works Department — deeds of easement — property adoption agreement for Otter Park — gift
of public improvement (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1857

Ohio Department of Public Health
Title X Program — Medicaid program payments — Grants — Health Department (O 1404-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
East 55th St. (Broadway Ave. to Superior Ave.) — repairing and resurfacing — consent and
cause payment — Capital Projects Office (Wards 05, 07) (O 1448-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

Parking Facilities Division
Amend Ord. No. 226-15 — Parking revenue control equipment and software with reporting
features for the Willard Park Garage and the East Gateway Garage — Works Department
(O 1351-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870

Parks Maintenance Division
Cemetery Rates — amend Section 131.42 — Works Department (O 1483-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

Permits
East 18th St. — encroach into right-of-way — ADA ramp and railing — The Salvation Army —
Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 1515-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th St., Prospect Ave., East 6th St., and Huron Rd. — encroach into right-of-way —
building foundations and area ways — Gateway Huron LLC — Capital Projects Office —
City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1488-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — petroleum pipelines —
Buckeye Partners, L.P. — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1514-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ontario St. — encroach into right-of-way — frost-free slabs and door swings, foundation
footings, metal cornice overhang, directional monument signs, snow melt system at
entrance, bike racks and canopy overhang — Cuyahoga County — Capital Projects Office
(O 1355-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle, Euclid Ave., Stearns Rd. and Deering Ave. — encroach into right-of-way —
maintaining building, roadway and streetscape improvements as part of the One
University Circle Luxury Apartments Project — One UC Partners, LLC — Capital
Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 1356-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vincent Avenue, N.E. — encroach into right-of-way — utility vault — Corning Place Ohio,
LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1231-15). . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

Police Division
Eastside Departments Group Enforcement Agency — mutual aid agreement — reciprocal field
force services to deal with crowd management, SWAT unit services , and use of police
equipment — CHIA — Safety Department (O 1232-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882

1908

December 9, 2015

The City Record

57

Port Control Department
Amend Sect(s) 1 &2 of Ord. 848-15 — Heavy — duty snow removal equipment, snow
removal vehicles, multi-purpose trucks and operators (O 1338-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend title and Sections 1 & 2 of Ord. 416-15 — purchase, lease, or lease with option to
purchases — extendable turret vehicles — CHIA (O 1294-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
In-line baggage system project — amend Contract No. CT 3001 PS 2013-042 — Vic
Thompson Company (O 1487-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internet provider and subscriber services agreement — contracts (O 1359-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminal space — lease agreement — Ultimate JetCharters, LLC dba Ultimate Air Shuttle,
LLC — Burke Lakefront Airport (O 1360-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

Professional Services
Customer Care and Billing System — contracts — SourceLink, Ohio LLC — Water Division —
Cleveland Public Power — Utilities Department (O 1322-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
In-line baggage system project — amend Contract No. CT 3001 PS 2013-042 — Vic
Thompson Company — Port Control Department (O 1487-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Manage the Gateway East Garage — contracts — Works Department (O 1260-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New Boosted Third High System in Richfield, Ohio — acquire real property and easement —
public improvement contract — Utilities Department (O 1368-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle Customer Care & Billing System — renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-096 — Five Point
Partners, LLC nka Ernst & Young U.S. LLP — Water Division — Utilities
Department (O 1357-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitating automated controls at City water work plants — public improvement contracts —
Utilities Department (O 1358-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TruePoint Solutions, LLC — Accela software platform (implement & manage) — amendment to
Contract No. CT 1503 PS 2013-81 — Finance Department (O 1429-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
WPC — Capital Improvement Plan — develop, manage and implement program policies —
contracts — Utilities Department (O 1290-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
WPC — Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) — evaluate and assess existing sewer system —
contracts — Utilities Department (O 1291-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883

Public Improvements
Aurora Road Pump Station — contracts — Water Division — Utilities Department (O 1369-15) .
Baldwin, Crown, Morgan and Nottingham Water Works plants — contracts — improving
chemical, HVAC, and electrical systems and modifying and repairing roofing — Water
Division — Utilities Department (O 1406-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bryant Ave., East 85th St., East 150th St., Rocky River Dr., West 48th St., and the West
134th Street Area Sewer Projects — contracts — WPC — Utilities Department
(O 1292-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution water mains — cleaning and lining, structural lining, and replacement, 2016 —
Water Division — Utilities Department (O 1366-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Water Works Plant — contract — improve site access and security — Water Division —
Utilities Department (O 1365-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New Boosted Third High System in Richfield, Ohio — acquire real property and easement —
contract — professional services — Utilities Department (O 1368-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement grinding for resurfacing streets — Streets Division — Works Department (O 1405-15)
Rehabilitating automated controls at City water work plants — professional services —
contracts — Utilities Department (O 1358-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trunk Main Renewal Program; 2016 to 2020 — repairing or replacing transmission
mains, valves, and appurtenances — contracts — Water Division — Utilities Department
(O 1367-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Works Department — deeds of easement — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for
Otter Park — gift of public improvement (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1857

Public Works
Amend Ord. No. 226-15 — Parking revenue control equipment and software with reporting
features for the Willard Park Garage and the East Gateway Garage (O 1351-15) . . . . . . . . .
Boys and Girls Club Grant, 2015 — St. Luke’s Foundation (O 1353-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Rd. Bridge Project over Doan Brook — temporary and permanent easements —
Cuyahoga County (Ward 10) (O 1438-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cemetery Rates — amend Section 131.42 — Park Maintenance and Properties (O 1483-15) . . . . . .
Manage the Gateway East Garage — professional services- contracts (O 1260-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Metroparks agreement for construct and maintain greening improvements to Canal Basin Park
Project (O 204-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement grinding for resurfacing streets — Streets Division (O 1405-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tires, transfer and disposal — Waste Collection and Disposal Division (O 1442-15) . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles equipment and accessories, 2015 (O 1167-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Cemetery — waive the setting fees — George and Julia Hayes Memorial (O 1519-15)
Deeds of easement — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for Otter Park — gift of public
improvement (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1909

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1880
1872
1873
1869
1865

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1857

The City Record

58

December 9, 2015

Purchases And Supplies Division
Euclid Ave., 10730 — acquire and re-convey — First Interstate Properties — TIF — Economic
Development Department (Ward 06) (O 1468-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
Euclid Ave., 7012 — acquire and re-convey — Victory Midtown, LLC — Economic Development —
Finance Department (Ward 05) (O 1408-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
West 3rd St., 2910 (city-owned property) — purchase agreement and / or option to purchase
agreement — Empire Paving, Inc. — Economic Development Department (Ward 03)
(O 1441-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

Recognition
(ARC) form LLC Design & Construction (The Cottages on Thurman) (R 1539-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
The Housing Division of the Cleveland Municipal Court — 35th Anniversary (R 1540-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Resolution of Support
Declaring that the City of Cleveland will strive for a tobacco free workforce
by 2017 (R 669-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting University Hospitals’ decision to open a Level 1 trauma center (R 613-15) . . . . . . .
Urging the Plain Dealer and cleveland.com to immediately stop littering with “shopCLE”
flyers in the city of Cleveland (R 1532-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
World AIDS Day — recognize Dec. 1st. — support Greater Cleveland HIV/AIDS Community
(R 1495-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Opposing Ohio House Resolution No. 31 (HCR 31) against allowing Syrian refugees into the
United States — City of Cleveland welcomes all refugees (R 1459-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting University Hospitals’ decision to open a Level 1 trauma center (R 613-15) . . . . . . .
Urging the Plain Dealer and cleveland.com to immediately stop littering with “shopCLE”
flyers in the city of Cleveland (R 1532-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
World AIDS Day — recognize Dec. 1st. — support Greater Cleveland HIV/AIDS Community
(R 1495-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879

Safety Department
Assistance to Firefighters Grant, FY 2014 — U.S. Department of Homeland Security — Grants
(O 1475-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Local Solicitation, FY 2015 — Bureau of Justice
Assistance — U.S. Department of Justice (O 1476-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program — Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Grant,
FY 2015 — Cleveland Rape Crisis Center — contracts — sexual assault advocate —
County Public Safety and Justice Services (O 1435-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Construction Zone Grant, FY 2015 — Ohio Department of Public Safety — Grants (O 1432-15) . .
Eastside Departments Group Enforcement Agency — mutual aid agreement — reciprocal field
force services to deal with crowd management, SWAT unit services, and use of police
equipment — CHIA (O 1232-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Impaired Driving Enforcement Program (IDEP) Grant, FY 2016 — Ohio Department of Public
Safety — Grants (O 1433-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Grant, FY 2015 — U.S. Department of Justice —
Grants — Frontline Services — contracts (O 1434-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Drug Use Prevention Program, 2015-16 — Ohio Attorney General — Grant (O 1474-15). . . . .
Selective Traffic Enforcement Program (STEP) Grant, FY 2016 — Ohio Department of Public
Safety — Grants (O 1436-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Smoke Detectors, Smoke Alarms, and Carbon Monoxide Alarms — amend Sections 392.01 to
392.08 and 392.99 — enact new Section 392.021 (O 1528-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant, FY 14 — U.S. Department
of Homeland Security — Grants (O 1431-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG), FY 15 — Northern Ohio Violent Crime
Consortium (NOVCC) Program — Kent State University — Grants — Ohio Office of
Criminal Justice (O 1478-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, FY 15 — Northern Ohio Law Enforcement Task
Force (NOLETF) Program — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services (O 1477-15) . . . . . . . .
Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) grant, FY 2015 — Cleveland Domestic Violence
Program — County Public Safety and Justice Services — Grants (O 1479-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westshore Enforcement Bureau — mutual aid agreement — City of Cleveland — reciprocal
bomb squad and SWAT unit services — CHIA (O 1227-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1860
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882

Salaries
Cleveland Police Patrolmen’s Association (Civilian) — approve collective bargaining
agreement — amend Section 10 of Ord. 323-15, as amended — Finance Department —
Human Resource Department (O 1480-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

1910

December 9, 2015

The City Record

59

International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE), Local 27 — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Section 47 of Ord. 323-15, as amended — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 1481-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874
Salary and wage schedules — Section 43 — amend Ord. 323-15, as amended — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 1482-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

Sewers
Bryant Ave., East 85th St., East 150th St., Rocky River Dr., West 48th St., and the West
134th Street Area Sewer Projects — public improvement contracts — WPC — Utilities
Department (O 1292-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend section 543.02 — amend Ord. 111-15 —
Utilities Department (O 1318-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883

Street Vacation
Eugene Pl., N.W. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 03) (O 1362-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leonard St., — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 03) (O 1363-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 09) (R 1513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 07)
(R 1512-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 24th St., — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 03) (O 1364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

Streets Division
Pavement grinding for resurfacing streets — Works Department (O 1405-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872

Taxes
Tax-sharing agreement with the City of Shaker Heights and the City of Cleveland — Boundary
adjustment — City Planning Commission — Economic Development (O 1446-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

Utilities Department
Aurora Road Pump Station — public improvement contracts — Water Division (O 1369-15) . . . .
Baldwin, Crown, Morgan and Nottingham Water Works plants — public improvement
contracts — improving chemical, HVAC, and electrical systems and modifying and
repairing roofing — Water Division (O 1406-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bryant Ave., East 85th St., East 150th St., Rocky River Dr., West 48th St., and the West
134th Street Area Sewer Projects — public improvement contracts — WPC (O 1292-15) . . . .
Cleveland Thermal LLC change name to Corix Infrastructures (US) Inc. — amend contracts —
Finance Department (O 1430-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Customer Care and Billing System — contracts — SourceLink, Ohio LLC — Water Division —
Cleveland Public Power (O 1322-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution water mains — cleaning and lining, structural lining, and replacement, 2016 —
Water Division (O 1366-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Information Technology infrastructure upgrade IT — contracts (O 1325-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Water Works Plant — public improvement contract — improve site access and
security — Water Division (O 1365-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New Boosted Third High System in Richfield, Ohio — acquire real property and easement —
public improvement contract — professional services (O 1368-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle Customer Care & Billing System — renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-096 — Five Point
Partners, LLC nka Ernst & Young U.S. LLP — Water Division (O 1357-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle customer care and billing system hosting, administer — IBM Corporation —
renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-97 (O 1320-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitating automated controls at City water work plants — professional services —
public improvement contracts (O 1358-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend section 543.02 — amend Ord. 111-15
(O 1318-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trunk Main Renewal Program; 2016 to 2020 — repairing or replacing transmission
mains, valves, and appurtenances — public improvements contracts — Water Division
(O 1367-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utility bills, inserts, reminders, and delinquent notices — design, distribute, print —
on-line bill payment services — renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-153 — Kubra Data
Transfer Ltd. — Cleveland Public Power — Water Division (O 1321-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water rates — Affordability Programs — Fees and Charges — amend Section 535.04, 535.05,
and 535.06 — Water Division (O 1303-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
WPC — Capital Improvement Plan — develop, manage and implement program policies —
professional services contracts (O 1290-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
WPC — Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) — evaluate and assess existing sewer system —
professional service contracts (O 1291-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1911

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883

The City Record

60

December 9, 2015

Vehicles
Amend Sect(s) 1 & 2 of Ord. 848-15 — Heavy — duty snow removal equipment, snow
removal vehicles, multi-purpose trucks and operators (O 1338-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
Vehicles equipment and accessories, 2015 — Works Department (O 1167-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

Ward 01
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Ward 02
GED Preparation and Basic Education Program — Seeds of Literacy — agreement —
Community Development (Ward(s) 02, 05, 14 CRF) (O 1529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Ward 03
(ARC) form LLC Design & Construction (The Cottages on Thurman) — Recognition
(R 1539-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 736-01 — West 3rd St. ramp (property located under) — grant easement — F.C.
Southridge Corp. — Capital Projects Office (O 1517-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Catania, Sammy — Condolence (R 1535-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., (between Quigley Rd. and Lorain Ave.) — remove mapped setbacks — City
Planning Commission (O 1371-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan — redevelopment of Sites A, B, and C —
Cumberland TCC, LLC — TIF agreement — CMSD — Economic Development (O 1400-15) .
Cleveland Downtown Lakefront Development Plan — redevelopment of Sites D, E, and F —
Cumberland TCC, LLC, — TIF agreement — CMSD — Economic Development (O 1401-15) .
Cleveland Intergroup Relations Project — International Community Council — Worldwide
Intercultural Network — agreement — Community Development (Ward(s) 14, 03, and 11
CRF) (O 1531-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Theatre/Thomas Jefferson International Newcomers Academy High
School Performance Project — providing theatrical educational and training to
Cleveland high school students — Cleveland Public Theatre — agreement — Community
Development (O 1524-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring that the City of Cleveland will strive for a tobacco free workforce
by 2017 (R 669-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Doggett, William B. — Appreciation (R 1541-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th St., Prospect Ave., East 6th St., and Huron Rd. — encroach into right-of-way —
building foundations and area ways — Gateway Huron LLC — Capital Projects Office —
City Planning Commission (O 1488-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eugene Pl., N.W. — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(O 1362-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleshler, Bertram — Condolence (R 1536-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — petroleum pipelines —
Buckeye Partners, L.P. — Capital Projects Office (O 1514-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leonard St., — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(O 1363-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Monroe Street Cemetery Project — provide signage to identify persons of historical
significance — Monroe Street Cemetery Foundation — agreement — Community
Development (Ward 03 CRF) (O 1526-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ontario St. — encroach into right-of-way — frost-free slabs and door swings, foundation
footings, metal cornice overhang, directional monument signs, snow melt system at
entrance, bike racks and canopy overhang — Cuyahoga County — Capital Projects Office
(O 1355-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposing Ohio House Resolution No. 31 (HCR 31) against allowing Syrian refugees into the
United States — City of Cleveland welcomes all refugees (R 1459-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vertosnik, Alex — Congratulations (R 1538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vertosnik, IV, Louis — Congratulations (R 1537-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vincent Avenue, N.E. — encroach into right-of-way — utility vault — Corning Place Ohio,
LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 1231-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 25th Street & Detroit Avenue project — Snavely Property Company LLC / w25d commercial,
LLC — redevelopment of property — TIF agreement — CMSD — Economic Development
Department (O 1494-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 24th St., — vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(O 1364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 3rd St., 2910 — forgivable loan agreement (VPI) — economic development assistance —
Empire Paving, Inc., — Economic Development Department (O 1440-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 3rd St., 2910 (city-owned property) — purchase agreement and / or option to purchase
agreement — Empire Paving, Inc. — Purchases and Supplies Division — Economic
Development Department (O 1441-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1858
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1890

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

Ward 04
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

1912

December 9, 2015

The City Record

61

Ward 05
Amend Ord. 463-14 — Euclid Ave., 7012 (Victory Building) — HUD 108 Empowerment Zone
loan — economic development assistance — Victory Midtown, LLC, — Economic
Development (O 1410-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 1452-15 — Rental Information Center and Tenant Advocacy Program — housing
services — Cleveland Tenants Organization — agreement — Community Development
Department (Ward(s) 05,07 CRF) (O 1522-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Rd., 6555 — forgivable loan (VPI) — Abeona Therapeutics, Inc., — EDA Title IX
loan — economic development assistance — Economic Development Department
(O 1439-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Catania, Sammy — Condolence (R 1535-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dealer Tire relocation to the Victory Center site — Euclid Ave., 7012 — Dealer Tire, LLC, —
grant agreement — Economic Development (O 1407-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 18th St. — encroach into right-of-way — ADA ramp and railing — The Salvation Army —
Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 1515-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th St. (Broadway Ave. to Superior Ave.) — repairing and resurfacing — consent and
cause payment — Ohio Department of Transportation (O.DOT) — Capital Projects Office
(Wards 05, 07) (O 1448-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 7012 — acquire and re-convey — Victory Midtown, LLC — Economic
Development — Finance Department — Purchases and Supplies Division (O 1408-15) . . . . .
GED Preparation and Basic Education Program — Seeds of Literacy — agreement —
Community Development (Ward(s) 02, 05, 14 CRF) (O 1529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Victory Midtown, LLC — contract — Euclid Ave., 7012 — Victory Center site — demolition
loan — Economic Development (O 1409-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Victory Midtown, LLC — Victory Center site — Euclid Ave., 7012 — economic
development assistance — grant agreement — Economic Development (O 1411-15) . . . . . . .
Woodland Cemetery — waive the setting fees — George and Julia Hayes Memorial — Works
Department (O 1519-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1856

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865

Ward 06
Euclid Ave., 10730 — acquire and re-convey — First Interstate Properties — TIF — Economic
Development Department — Purchases and Supplies Division (O 1468-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 10730 — TIF Agreement — First Interstate Properties, Ltd., — One University
Circle project — Cleveland Metropolitan School District — Economic Development
Department (O 1518-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 8614 — new application — liquor permit (F 1534-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting University Hospitals’ decision to open a Level 1 trauma center (R 613-15) . . . . . . . .
University Circle, Euclid Ave., Stearns Rd. and Deering Ave. — encroach into right-of-way —
maintaining building, roadway and streetscape improvements as part of the One
University Circle Luxury Apartments Project — One UC Partners, LLC — Capital
Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 1356-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1874

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1858
1855
1855
1875

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870

Ward 07
Amend Ord. No. 1452-15 — Rental Information Center and Tenant Advocacy Program — housing
services — Cleveland Tenants Organization — agreement — Community Development
Department (Ward(s) 05,07 CRF) (O 1522-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend title & Section(s) 1 and 2 of Ord. 1451-14 — EDI Empowerment Zone Grant — The
Beauty Shoppe, LLC — Economic Development Department (O 1444-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th St. (Broadway Ave. to Superior Ave.) — repairing and resurfacing — consent and
cause payment — Ohio Department of Transportation (O.DOT) — Capital Projects Office
(Wards 05, 07) (O 1448-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 6815 — forgivable loan agreement (VPI) — The Beauty Shoppe LLC, — economic
development assistance — Economic Development Department (O 1445-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (R 1512-15) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865

Ward 08
Amend Ord. No. 1415-15 — Holiday Food Gift Card Program — food gift cards to low-to-moderate
income residents — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation — Community
Development (Ward(s) 08, 10 CRF) (O 1523-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting University Hospitals’ decision to open a Level 1 trauma center (R 613-15) . . . . . . . . .
Urging the Plain Dealer and cleveland.com to immediately stop littering with “shopCLE”
flyers in the city of Cleveland (R 1532-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Young Achievers Choice Program — after-school educational and social activities for
Cleveland youths — Giving Life Foundation — agreement — Community Development
(Ward 08 CRF) (O 1525-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1913

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866

The City Record

62

December 9, 2015

Ward 09
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (R 1513-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 10502 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1010-15 —
liquor permit (R 1520-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting University Hospitals’ decision to open a Level 1 trauma center (R 613-15)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875

Ward 10
Amend Ord. No. 1415-15 — Holiday Food Gift Card Program — food gift cards to low-to-moderate
income residents — St. Clair Superior Development Corporation — Community
Development (Ward(s) 08, 10 CRF) (O 1523-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Rd. Bridge Project over Doan Brook — temporary and permanent easements — Cuyahoga
County — Works Department (O 1438-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting University Hospitals’ decision to open a Level 1 trauma center (R 613-15) . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1865
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1896
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875

Ward 11
Cleveland Intergroup Relations Project — International Community Council — Worldwide
Intercultural Network — agreement — Community Development (Ward(s) 14, 03, and 11
CRF) (O 1531-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
Hookah Lounges and Vapor Lounges — amend Section 347.121 (O 978-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1881
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Ward 12
Catania, Sammy — Condolence (R 1535-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
Hookah Lounges and Vapor Lounges — amend Section 347.121 (O 978-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1881
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Ward 13
Catania, Sammy — Condolence (R 1535-15) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . .
The Housing Division of the Cleveland Municipal Court
(R 1540-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
— 35th Anniversary — Recognition
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Ward 14
Amend Ord. No. 658-15 and Ord. No. 1132-15 — West 25th St., 3109 — Be Next Awning & Graphics,
Inc 50/50 Project — job creation — agreement — Economic Development (Ward 14 CRF)
(O 1527-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Catania, Sammy — Condolence (R 1535-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Intergroup Relations Project — International Community Council — Worldwide
Intercultural Network — agreement — Community Development (Ward(s) 14, 03, and 11
CRF) (O 1531-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
GED Preparation and Basic Education Program — Seeds of Literacy — agreement —
Community Development (Ward(s) 02, 05, 14 CRF) (O 1529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1866
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Ward 15
Catania, Sammy — Condolence (R 1535-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
Use District — City Planning Commission (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging the Plain Dealer and cleveland.com to immediately stop littering with “shopCLE”
flyers in the city of Cleveland (R 1532-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
World AIDS Day — recognize Dec. 1st. — support Greater Cleveland HIV/AIDS Community
(R 1495-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1864
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1868
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1879

Ward 16
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Ward 17
Approve Assessment Equalization Board Report — Kamms Special Improvement
District (SID) — assessments — City Planning Commission (O 1447-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corrigan, Judge John E. — Condolence (R 1544-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Jr., David — Condolence (R 1542-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 16700 (1st. and 2nd fls., w/end) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor
permit (R 1521-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1914

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1867

December 9, 2015

The City Record

63

Mulgrew, John P. — Condolence (R 1545-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855
O’Neill, Edward — Condolence (R 1543-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1855

Waste Collection And Disposal Division
Tires, transfer and disposal — Works Department (O 1442-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1873

Water Division
Aurora Road Pump Station — public improvement contracts — Utilities Department (O 1369-15) .
Baldwin, Crown, Morgan and Nottingham Water Works plants — public improvement
contracts — improving chemical, HVAC, and electrical systems and modifying and
repairing roofing — Utilities Department (O 1406-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Customer Care and Billing System — contracts — SourceLink, Ohio LLC — Cleveland Public
Power — Utilities Department (O 1322-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution water mains — cleaning and lining, structural lining, and replacement, 2016 —
Utilities Department (O 1366-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Information Technology infrastructure upgrade IT — contracts — Utilities Department
(O 1325-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Water Works Plant — public improvement contract — improve site access and
security — Utilities Department (O 1365-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle Customer Care & Billing System — renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-096 — Five Point
Partners, LLC nka Ernst & Young U.S. LLP — Utilities Department (O 1357-15) . . . . . . . . . . .
Trunk Main Renewal Program; 2016 to 2020 — repairing or replacing transmission
mains, valves, and appurtenances — public improvements contracts — Utilities
Department (O 1367-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utility bills, inserts, reminders, and delinquent notices — design, distribute, print —
on-line bill payment services — renew Contract No. CT 2002 PS 2013-153 — Kubra Data
Transfer Ltd. — Cleveland Public Power (O 1321-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1871

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

Water Mains
Distribution water mains — cleaning and lining, structural lining, and replacement, 2016 —
Water Division — Utilities Department (O 1366-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1884

Water Pollution Control Division (WPC)
Bryant Ave., East 85th St., East 150th St., Rocky River Dr., West 48th St., and the West
134th Street Area Sewer Projects — public improvement contracts —
Utilities Department (O 1292-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital Improvement Plan — develop, manage and implement program policies — professional
services contracts — Utilities Department (O 1290-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) — evaluate and assess existing sewer system — professional
service contracts — Utilities Department (O 1291-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Information Technology infrastructure upgrade IT — contracts — Utilities Department
(O 1325-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1882
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1883
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1869

Water Rates
Water rates — Affordability Programs — Fees and Charges — amend Section 535.04, 535.05,
and 535.06 — Utilities Department — Water Division (O 1303-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1875

Willard Park Garage
Amend Ord. No. 226-15 — Parking revenue control equipment and software with reporting
features for the Willard Park Garage and the East Gateway Garage — Works Department
(O 1351-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1870

Zoning
Clark Ave., (between Quigley Rd. and Lorain Ave.) — remove mapped setbacks — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1371-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1885
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1864

1915

