The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

May the Sixth, Two Thousand and Fifteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

22

Board of Control

22

Civil Service

24

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

25

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
26

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

28

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

28

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

28

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

29

Committee Meetings

33

Index

34

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Christopher Diehl, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Sharon Dumas, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Toinette Parrilla, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Myron Benett, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 14C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge James H. Hewitt, III – Courtroom 12A
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12B
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 6, 2015

Vol. 102

No. 5291

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MAY 4, 2015
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2015-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson (CHAIR), Dow (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Kazy, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
(VICEPruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Kazy, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Dow (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Kelley, Mitchell.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Mitchell, Kelley, Keane,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Polensek, Pruitt.

Kelley
Keane,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, May 4, 2015
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:01 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Brian
Kazy, Kevin J. Kelley, Kenneth L.
Johnson, Martin J. Keane, Mamie J.
Mitchell, Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, and Zack Reed.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Regional Development Edward W. Rybka, Chief of
Education Monyka S. Price, Chief of
Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan,
Chief
of
Public
Affairs
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
and
Directors
Langhenry, Smith, Spronz, Parrilla,
McGrath, Cox, O’Leary, Southerington, Nichols, Griffin, Collier, Fumich,
Ambroz and Burrows.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
K. Johnson, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Keane.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Kazy, Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Kazy, Reed.

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 508-15.
From Ronald J. H. O’Leary, Director, Department of Building and
Housing, City of Cleveland. Notice
of acceptance of a grant from Cuyahoga County Property Demolition
Fund-Round 1 Award, for demolition
of nuisance structures. Received.

625

File No. 509-15.
From Diane Karpinski, Petition
Filer. Copy of a petition to be circulated for an ordinance to be
placed on the ballot in November,
2016, supporting amending the U. S.
Constitution to establish that corporations are not people and money is
not speech, and providing for regular public hearings on these topics.
Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 510-15.
RE: #8860446. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. 3218 Able
LLC, 3218 East 135th St. (Ward 4).
Received.
File No. 511-15.
RE: #5830186. Transfer of Ownership Application, C2 C2X. Memphis
Gas Inc., 7210 Memphis Ave. (Ward
13). Received.
File No. 512-15.
RE: #8113133. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. Shrey LLC,
4852
Broadview
(Ward
13).
Received.
File No. 513-15.
RE: #2455386. Stock Application,
C1 C2. 18506 St. Clair Ave. Inc., 18506
St. Clair Ave. (Ward 10). Received.
File No. 514-15.
RE: #4582355. New License Application, D5J. Kenko Investment LLC,
Euclid
Ave.
(Ward
6).
11312
Received.
File No. 545-15.
RE: #1173825. New License Application, D5A. CTF Hotel Holdings
Inc., 24 Public Square (Ward 3).
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 546-15—Dionne Tiffany
Edwards.
Res. No. 547-15—Reginald Evans.
Res. No. 548-15—Pauline Parks
Battle.
Res. No. 558-15—Bishop F. E.
(Floyd Eugene) Perry, Jr.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res.
Sasso.

No.

549-15—Ruth

Robertson

The City Record

4
Res. No. 550-15—Kayla Earnhart.
Res. No. 551-15—Meghan White.
Res. No. 552-15—Elder Robert E.
Vaughn, Sr.
Res. No. 553-15—Martin “Marty”
Sinclair.
Res. No. 554-15—Rev. Allen Harris.
Res. No. 555-15—Lea Kayali.
Res. No. 556-15—Sister Barbara
Eppich.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 557-15—Cinco de Mayo —
2015.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 515-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax
Bonds to refund all or a portion of outstanding Series 2008 bonds issued to
refinance a payment to the Police and
Fire Pension Fund to obtain debt service savings and authorizing and
approving related matters.
Whereas, under authority of Section 3 of Article XVIII of the Ohio Constitution, Section 717.07 of the Ohio
Revised Code, the Charter of the City,
Ordinance No. 367-94, passed by the
City Council on March 14, 1994, and
the Original Indenture (as defined in
Section 1), the City issued its Subordinated Income Tax Variable Rate
Refunding Bonds, Series 1994 (the
“Series 1994 Bonds”), to provide for a
payment to the Police and Fire Pension Fund of the State of Ohio in satisfaction at a reduced amount of certain obligations of the City for
employer’s accrued liability to that
Pension Fund; and
Whereas, under authority of Section 3 of Article XVIII of the Ohio Constitution, Section 717.07 of the Ohio
Revised Code, the Charter of the City,
Ordinance No.  290-08 passed by the
City Council on February 25, 2008 and
under a Trust Indenture dated as of
August 1, 2008 (the “Trust Indenture”), between the City and U.S.
Bank National Association (the
“Trustee”), the City issued its Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax
Bonds, Series 2008 (Police and Fire
Pension Payment) (the “Series 2008
Bonds”), to currently refund all of its
outstanding Series 1994 Bonds; and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance by
the City of refunding bonds (“Refunding Bonds”) for the purpose of refunding all or a portion of the City’s outstanding Series 2008 Bonds (the
“Refunded Bonds”) to obtain debt service savings on all or a portion of the
Refunded Bonds ; and
Whereas, the Refunding Bonds and
any additional series of Bonds issued
under the Trust Indenture are
payable from and secured by the
Pledged Revenues (as defined in Section 1) under the terms of the Trust
Indenture;
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of Refunding Bonds is necessary to enable the City to take
advantage of favorable market conditions on a timely basis to obtain debt
service savings and thereby to protect

and preserve the credit of the City,
and as a result, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition to
the words and terms elsewhere
defined in this Ordinance, including
its preambles, unless the context or
use clearly indicates another or different meaning or intent:
“Certificate of Award” means the
certificate authorized by Section 3, to
be executed by the Director of
Finance, setting forth and determining those terms or other matters pertaining to the Refunding Bonds that
this Ordinance requires or authorizes
to be set forth or determined in it.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, or other instrument used to
enhance or provide for the security of
Refunding Bonds.
“Debt Service Charges” means, for
any period or time, the principal of
(whether at stated maturity, by
mandatory sinking fund redemption,
by acceleration or otherwise) and
interest and any premium due on the
Obligations (as defined in the Trust
Indenture) for that period or payable
at that time, as the case may be.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance of
the City, from time to time, pursuant
to Section 13.
“First Supplemental Indenture”
means First Supplemental Trust
Indenture, between the City and the
Trustee, supplementing the Trust
Indenture and providing terms specific to the Refunding Bonds.
“General Bond Ordinance” means
Ordinance No. 1749-80 passed by the
Council on October 8, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by
the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed by the Council on June 10, 1996.
“Indenture” means the Trust Indenture, as supplemented and amended
from time to time, including by the
First Supplemental Indenture.
“Original Indenture” means the
Indenture of Trust dated as of May 15,
1994, between the City and the Original Trustee, securing the Series 1994
Bonds, as supplemented and amended
by the First Supplemental Indenture
of Trust dated as of May 8, 1998, the
Second Supplemental Indenture of
Trust dated as of March 9, 1999, and
the Third Supplemental Indenture of
Trust dated as of June 1, 1999.
“Original Trustee” means U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee
under the Original Indenture.
“Pledged Revenues” means the lesser of (i) the Unrestricted Income Tax
Receipts, or (ii) the Unrestricted
Income Tax Receipts remaining after
the City’s Central Collection Agency
has withheld and paid to the Escrow
Agent, as defined in the General Bond
Ordinance, the amount required by
Section (b) of the General Bond Ordinance to be withheld and paid to the
Escrow Agent and after payment of
any other amounts required to honor
the pledge of income tax receipts of
the City in Section 9 of the General
Bond Ordinance.

626

May 6, 2015
“Refunding Bonds” means the
Refunding Bonds authorized by this
Ordinance.
“Unrestricted
Income
Tax
Receipts” means the gross income tax
receipts of the City net of the amount
restricted by Chapter 191 of the Codified Ordinances of the City to the payment of capital expenditures.
Unless otherwise indicated, any reference to a Section is a reference to a
Section of this Ordinance.
Section 2.  Purpose, Authority, and
Authorized Principal Amount. This
Council finds and determines that it is
necessary and proper and in the best
interest of the City to authorize the
issuance of Refunding Bonds for the
purpose of refunding the Refunded
Bonds. The Refunding Bonds are
issued under authority of Article
XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution, Ohio Revised Code Section
717.07, the Charter of the City, and
this Ordinance. The principal amount
of the Refunding Bonds is to be the
amount set forth in the Certificate of
Award authorized in Section 3 and
shall be the amount determined by
the Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
to be necessary (i) to refund the
Refunded Bonds, (ii) to fund any
deposit to a debt service reserve fund,
(iii) to pay costs of any Credit Support Instruments, and (iv) to pay
costs of issuing the Refunding Bonds
and refunding the Refunded Bonds;
provided that the aggregate net present value debt service savings
resulting from the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds is not less than 3%.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Refunding Bonds shall be deposited
and applied as provided in the First
Supplemental Indenture and for the
purposes stated in this Ordinance,
and those proceeds are appropriated
for those purposes.
Section 3.    Terms of Refunding
Bonds. The final terms of the Refunding Bonds shall be set forth in a written certificate to be signed and delivered by the Director of Finance upon
the sale of the Refunding Bonds upon
terms and conditions consistent with
this Ordinance and that in the opinion
of the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, are in the best interests of
the City (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Refunding Bonds shall be dated
the date of issuance or such other
date as is designated in the Certificate of Award. The Refunding Bonds
shall mature on the dates and in the
respective principal amounts determined in the Certificate of Award,
provided that the final maturity date
shall be not later than the final maturity date of the Refunded Bonds. The
Refunding Bonds shall bear interest
from their date at the rate or rates per
year set forth in the Certificate of
Award, or if any Refunding Bonds
bear interest at variable rate or rates,
at the rate determined pursuant to the
method identified in the Certificate of
Award and set forth in the First Supplemental Indenture, until the principal amount of the Refunding Bonds is
paid or payment is provided for. Interest on the Refunding Bonds shall be
payable on the dates determined in
the Certificate of Award and as further provided for in the First Supplemental Indenture. If any Refunding
Bonds bear interest at a fixed rate,
that rate shall not exceed 6% per year
(computed on the basis of a 360-day

May 6, 2015
year consisting of twelve 30-day
months). If any Refunding Bonds
bear interest at a variable rate or
rates, those rates shall not exceed the
rate set forth below.
The provisions of Sections  9.98 to
9.983 of the Revised Code shall apply
to the Refunding Bonds and pursuant
to that authority and this Ordinance,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award,
based on the written advice of a financial advisor, that the City’s best interests will be served by causing all or a
portion of the Refunding Bonds to be
obligations bearing interest at variable rates. If the Director of Finance
so determines, then the Director of
Finance shall specify in the Certificate of Award the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the variable
rate Refunding Bonds shall be determined; provided that the variable rate
Refunding Bonds shall not bear interest at a rate in excess of 25% per year.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to enter into agreements in connection with the delivery of the variable
rate Refunding Bonds, and from time
to time thereafter so long as the variable rate Refunding Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments and others as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Refunding Bonds
upon tender for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment
by the City of any amounts drawn
under the Credit Support Instrument.
The Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, shall further determine and
specify in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Refunding Bonds
are subject to optional redemption
prior to maturity, the earliest date on
which redeemable Refunding Bonds
shall be subject to prior redemption,
which shall not be later than ten
years from the first interest payment
date, and the applicable redemption
premium for the redeemable Refunding Bonds, which shall be not greater
than 102% of the principal amount
redeemed. The Refunding Bonds may
be subject to purchase by the City in
lieu of optional redemption if and to
the extent provided in the Certificate
of Award and the First Supplemental
Indenture.
Section 4. Form; Exchange; Execution. The Refunding Bonds shall be
issued in fully registered form. The
Refunding Bonds initially shall be
delivered only in book-entry form,
shall be registered in the name of the
Depository (as defined in the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered
owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository, and shall not
be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture. The principal and any redemption premium and
the interest payable on each Refunding Bond shall be payable at the
times, to the persons and in the manner set forth in, or referenced by, the
Indenture, including, without limitation, provisions thereof permitting

The City Record
special arrangements for payments to
the Depository. The Refunding Bonds
shall be signed by the persons and in
the manner set forth in the Indenture.
The Refunding Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance.
Section 5. Sale of Refunding Bonds.
The Refunding Bonds shall be sold at
not less than 97% of par plus accrued
interest at private sale by the Director of Finance to one or more financial institutions selected by the Director of Finance based on an evaluation
of the qualifications of firms that
have proposed to underwrite the
Refunding Bonds (collectively, the
“Original Purchaser”) in accordance
with law, the provisions of this Ordinance and the Certificate of Award.
The Director of Finance shall cause
the Refunding Bonds to be prepared,
and have the Refunding Bonds signed
and delivered, together with a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Refunding
Bonds if requested by the Original
Purchaser, to the Original Purchaser
upon payment of the purchase price.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, a bond purchase
agreement between the City and the
Original Purchaser, or representative
thereof (the “Purchase Agreement”),
containing terms consistent with this
Ordinance and that are determined by
the Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
to be customary for revenue bonds
issued by governmental entities,
including, without limitation, representations as to the accuracy and
completeness of information contained in the official statement of the
City described below. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Purchase Agreement
from the proceeds of the Refunding
Bonds to the extent available and
then from Fund No. 01 SF 001 or from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose. The Mayor, the Director
of Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law, and other City officials, as
appropriate, are each authorized to
sign any transcript certificates,
financial statements and other documents and instruments and to take
such actions as are necessary or
appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, a disclosure document in
the form of an Official Statement is
appropriate or necessary in connection with the original issuance of the
Refunding Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement and any
necessary supplements and to authorize the use and distribution of that
Official Statement and any supplements. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign on behalf of the
City that Official Statement and any
supplements. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver, on
behalf of the City, such certificates in
connection with the accuracy of the
Official Statement and any supplements as may, in the Director’s judgment, be necessary or appropriate.
The Director of Finance is also authorized to determine and certify on

627

5
behalf of the City that such disclosure
document is “deemed final” by the
City within the meaning of Securities
and Exchange Commission Rule 15c212 (the “SEC Rule”). The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
services for the production and distribution of preliminary and final official statements, including by printed
and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Refunding Bonds, the City agrees,
in accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Refunding Bonds under the SEC Rule,
to provide or cause to be provided
such financial information and operating data and notices, in such manner, as may be required for purposes
of the SEC Rule. In order to describe
and specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared, and to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, a continuing disclosure
agreement or certificate, which shall
constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Refunding Bonds in
accordance with the SEC Rule. The
performance of that agreement shall
be subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet costs the City would be required
to incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section  6. Security and Source of
Payment. The Refunding Bonds shall
be special obligations of the City, and
the Debt Service Charges on the
Refunding Bonds shall be payable
solely from the Pledged Revenues.
The payment of Debt Service Charges
on the Refunding Bonds will be
secured by the Indenture and by a
pledge of and lien on the debt service
fund and any debt service reserve
fund held by the Trustee under the
Indenture. The Refunding Bonds do
not and shall not represent or constitute a general obligation debt or
pledge of the faith and credit of the
City.
Section 7. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as the
Refunding Bonds are outstanding
under the Indenture, the City pledges
the Pledged Revenues and grants a
lien thereon, subordinate to the lien
granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the general
obligation bonds of the City issued
and outstanding under the General
Bond Ordinance, to the full extent
required
to
meet
Debt
Service
Charges payable on the Refunding
Bonds and any Debt Service Charges
on Parity Obligations (as defined in
the Indenture). The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes for
such purpose. The City further
covenants that so long as any Refunding Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its unrestricted income taxes in any

6
manner or to such extent that the City
would not be able to meet its obligations to the holders of the Refunding
Bonds.
Section 8. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental trust indenture
(the “First Supplemental Indenture”),
supplementing the Trust Indenture to
provide procedures for the authentication, registration and transfer of
the Refunding Bonds, redemption of
Refunding Bonds, payments under
any Credit Support Instrument authorized by Section 12, application of the
proceeds of the Refunding Bonds,
defeasance of the Refunding Bonds,
and other terms consistent with this
Ordinance and the Certificate of
Award and approved by the Director
of Finance as not substantially
adverse to the City. The First Supplemental Indenture shall be approved
as to form by the Director of Law. The
determination by the Director of
Finance that the provisions of the
First Supplemental Indenture are not
substantially adverse to the City
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the Director’s signing of the First
Supplemental Indenture. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Director of
Law, the Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
sign, acknowledge and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, such
documents, certifications and instruments in addition to the Trust Indenture and First Supplemental Indenture as may be necessary or appropriate to issue and sell the Refunding
Bonds and to consummate the transactions authorized by this Ordinance.
Section 9. Refunding of Refunded
Bonds; Escrow Agreement. The Director of Finance is authorized to sign
and deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an escrow agreement
between the City and the Trustee, as
escrow trustee, providing for, among
other matters: the investment and
holding in escrow of the proceeds of
the Refunding Bonds to be applied to
the refunding of the Refunded Bonds;
the application of the moneys derived
from those investments to the payment of the Debt Service Charges on
the Refunded Bonds; and the conditional call for redemption of the
Refunded Bonds. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the escrow agreement
from proceeds of the Refunding
Bonds to the extent available and
then from Fund No. 70 SF 001 or other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for that
purpose. Provision shall be made in
the escrow agreement to give the
Trustee any written notice of redemption required under the Trust Indenture. The Director of Finance and
other appropriate City officials shall
sign all documents and take all other
actions necessary or appropriate on
the part of the City to effect such
refunding in accordance with the
escrow agreement, the Trust Indenture and to cause the Refunded Bonds
to be deemed paid and discharged,
including without limitation, the
retention of an independent firm of
accountants to verify the mathematical accuracy of the calculations relating to the escrow.

The City Record
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. The City covenants that it will
use, and will restrict the use and
investment of, the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds in such manner and
to such extent as may be necessary so
that (a) the Refunding Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds
or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141
or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the Code) or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (b) the interest thereon will not
be an item of tax preference under
Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Refunding Bonds
to be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, (b) it will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this section
with respect to the Refunding Bonds
is also made with respect to all issues
any portion of the debt service on
which is paid from proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on
the Refunding Bonds from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above
are authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take with
respect to the Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Refunding Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Refunding Bonds as the
City is permitted or required to make
or give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections provided
for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the
Code or available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Refunding Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing rebate amounts or payments or penalties, or making payments of special amounts in lieu of
making computations to determine,
or paying, excess earnings as rebate,
or obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take any

628

May 6, 2015
and all other actions, make or obtain
calculations, make payments, and
make or give reports, covenants and
certifications of and on behalf of the
City, as may be appropriate to assure
the exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status of
the Refunding Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Refunding Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds, the
facts, circumstances and estimates on
which they are based, and other facts
and circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Refunding Bonds.
Section 11. Authorization of Hedging Arrangements. This Council finds
that by engaging in interest rate
hedging arrangements with respect
to Bonds the City may reduce its cost
of borrowing by optimizing the relative amounts of its fixed and variable
rate obligations or minimizing the
risk of variations in its debt service
costs or obtaining savings by confirming rates of interest on Bonds in
advance of their issuance. To permit
the City to have the flexibility to
undertake with respect to Bonds
interest rate swap, swaption, rate cap,
rate collar and other hedging transactions, from time to time, and to establish the procedures for approving
those transactions, this Council
authorizes the signing and delivery
of one or more agreements, including
amendments or supplements to existing agreements (each, a “Hedge
Agreement”), and any related agreements necessary for the consummation of the transactions contemplated
by each Hedge Agreement or to
achieve or maintain compliance with
federal regulations applicable to the
Hedge Agreement, if any, and the
payment of any amounts owed in connection with each Hedge Agreement.
The authorizations in this Section are
supplemental to and not in derogation
of any authority provided by any
other ordinance of this Council concerning hedging arrangements.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that it is to the financial advantage of
the City and in the City’s best interests that a hedging arrangement be
undertaken by the City with respect
to any Bonds issued or to be issued
under the Indenture, the Director of
Finance may authorize one or more
interest rate hedge transactions in
accordance
with
the
applicable
Hedge Agreement; provided that (a)
the counterparty shall be rated at the
time of signing the Hedge Agreement
not lower than “A” by at least one rating agency or its obligations under
the Hedge Agreement shall be guaranteed or insured by an entity rated
at the time of signing the Hedge
Agreement not lower than “A” by at
least one rating agency, with such
rating in either case determined without regard to a gradation by numerical or plus or minus or other modifier
and (b) the term of each hedge transaction shall not exceed the final maturity of the Bonds to which the hedge
relates.
The Director of Finance shall negotiate the terms of each Hedge Agreement with a counterparty satisfying
the credit criteria in this Ordinance.

May 6, 2015
The City shall receive a written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the
payments to be made by the counterparty to the City, or by the City to the
counterparty, shall be fair value for
the Hedge Agreement, considering,
among other things, the credit of the
City and the counterparty and the
terms and conditions of the Hedge
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall determine the terms and conditions of the Hedge Agreement, including without limitation, the rates to be
paid by the counterparty to the City
and by the City to the counterparty
under the Hedge Agreement, the time
or times and procedures for the exercise by the counterparty or the City,
as the case may be, of any option
under the Hedge Agreement, and
whether the obligations of the City
under the Hedge Agreement shall be
secured by a Credit Support Instrument. The approval of each interest
rate hedge transaction by the Director of Finance shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing and delivery
of the applicable Hedge Agreement
by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to terminate any Hedge Agreements in whole or in part or any Credit Support Instrument securing a
Hedge Agreement if the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that the City’s best interests will be
served by such termination. The
Director of Finance is further authorized to enter into amendments, novations, assignments or modifications
of a Hedge Agreement or any Credit
Support Instrument securing a Hedge
Agreement determined by the Director of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the City’s best interests will be served
by such amendment or modification.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from the Pledged Revenues and may
be payable also from other funds permitted by law to be used for the purpose, as identified by the Director of
Finance in the Hedge Agreement.
Those payments may be secured by a
pledge of Pledged Revenues that may
be subordinate to the pledge of
Pledged Revenues for the Bonds, to
the extent permitted by the Indenture, all as determined by the Director
of Finance and set forth in the Hedge
Agreement. The obligation of the City
to make payments under any Hedge
Agreement does not and shall not represent or constitute a general obligation, debt, bonded indebtedness or a
pledge of the faith and credit of the
City or the State of Ohio. Nothing
gives any party to any Hedge Agreement the right to have excises, ad valorem or other taxes levied by the City
or the State of Ohio for the payment of
any amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
Section 12. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If, in the judgment of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
the filing of an application for a rating on the Refunding Bonds by one or
more nationally recognized rating
agencies is in the best interests of the
City, the Director of Finance is authorized to prepare and submit those
applications and to provide to each
such agency such information as may
be required for the purpose. The
Director of Finance is authorized to

The City Record
contract for one or more Credit Support Instruments for any Series of
Refunding Bonds or designated portions thereof if the Director determines, based on the written advice of
a Financial Advisor, that the Credit
Support Instruments will result in
debt service savings to the City. The
cost of obtaining each rating and the
cost of obtaining each Credit Support
Instrument, except to the extent paid
by the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Bond Purchase Agreement, shall be paid from the proceeds
of Refunding Bonds or funds appropriated for that purpose.
Section 13. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required by
this Ordinance to be determined by
the Director of Finance. The Director
of Finance may rely on the written
advice of any Financial Advisor so
retained. Any Financial Advisor or
consultant
employed
under
the
authority of this Ordinance shall be
disinterested in the transaction and
be independent of the underwriters or
counterparties and any other party
interested in the transaction.
Section 14. Interpretation and Legislative Intent. Any provisions of the
Codified Ordinances of the City that
are inconsistent with the provisions
of this Ordinance shall not apply to
the Refunding Bonds or matters
authorized herein.
All terms, conditions, pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority,
including its authority under its Charter and Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 15. Validity. This Council
finds and determines that this Ordinance was passed in compliance with
all applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council.
This Council further finds and determines that all acts and conditions necessary to be done or performed by the
City or to have been met precedent to
and in the issuing of the Refunding
Bonds in order to make them legal,
valid, and binding special obligations
of the City have been performed and
have been met, or will at the time of
delivery of the Refunding Bonds have
been performed and have been met, in
regular and due form as required by
law, and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or
constitutional, is applicable to the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds.
Section 16. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Refunding Bonds to
the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County and to secure a receipt
therefor.

629

7
Section 17. Captions, Headings, and
Section References. The captions and
headings in this Ordinance are solely
for convenience of reference and in no
way define, limit, or describe the
scope or intent of any Sections, subsections, paragraphs, subparagraphs,
or clauses hereof. Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance
unless otherwise indicated.
Section 18. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section is
hereby declared to be independent,
and the finding or holding of any section or any subdivision or paragraph
of any section to be invalid or void
shall not be deemed or held to affect
the validity of any other section, subdivision or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 19. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of its
committees concerning and relating
to the passage of this Ordinance were
taken in an open meeting of this
Council or committees, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
those formal actions were in meetings
open to the public, all in compliance
with the law.
Section 20. Sunset of Authorization.
The authority granted by this Ordinance shall expire three years from
the effective date of this Ordinance. If
a preliminary official statement with
respect to the Refunding Bonds is distributed under the authority of this
Ordinance at any time within the
three-year period following its effective date, then the authority granted
by this Ordinance shall not expire as
to those Refunding Bonds. The Director of Finance shall notify the Chairman of the Finance Committee and
the Clerk of this Council of the initiation of the issuance of any Refunding
Bonds under the authority of this
Ordinance.
Section 21. Emergency. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing for the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds, which will enable
the City to obtain debt service savings and thereby protect and preserve
the credit of the City, and for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department, and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 516-15.
By Council Members Reed, K. Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing of East 116th Street from Miles
Road to Union Avenue; authorizing
the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into agreements; to apply for
and accept an allocation of County
Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds;
and authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire
any real property and easements necessary for the improvement.

8
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Consent. That it is
declared to be in the public interest
that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given to the County of Cuyahoga (the “County”) to construct the
following improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the County: resurfacing
of East 116th Street from Miles Road
to Union Avenue (County ID No. 1170)
(the “Improvement”).
Section 2. Cooperation
(a) That the City will cooperate
with the County in the Improvement.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for the
Improvement, under Current Cuyahoga County standards for construction of County roads and bridges.
(c) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction project.
(d) That the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the County
to be not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement.
Section 3. Funding
(a) That the City agrees to cooperate with the County in the cost of the
Improvement by an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund; and by applying to the
County to use the License Tax Funds
for the Improvement.
(b) That the County shall secure
and/or contribute one-hundred percent (100%) of the cost of design, construction, and construction supervision.
(c) That if funds administered by
the Ohio Public Works Commission
are used for the Improvement, the
amount of the funds shall be applied
to the County’s share of the costs specified in this ordinance.
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, the
City will keep the highway open to
traffic at all times; and
(a) Maintain the Improvement in
accordance with the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial provisions for the
maintenance;
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstructions in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands or other private installations
within the right-of-way limits;
(c) That the County shall continue
to maintain the structural elements of
any bridge (defined as a structure
with a span of twenty feet or greater)
located within the limits of the
Improvement under the applicable
sections of the Revised Code; and
(d) After construction of the
Improvement is complete, the City
agrees to follow and maintain postconstruction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
Section 5. Traffic. That on completion of the Improvement, the City will

The City Record
keep the highway open to traffic at
all times; and
(a) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices conforming to the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices on the Improvement in
compliance with the provisions of Section 4511.11 of the Revised Code and
other related sections of the Revised
Code;
(b) That the street or highway
within the limits of the Improvement
is designated a through highway as
provided in division (A)(6) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code;
(c) That stop signs affecting the
movement of traffic on the street or
highway within the Improvement
shall be removed, and no stop signs
shall be erected on same except at its
intersection with another through
highway where traffic does not warrant the installation of a traffic control signal but where the warrants for
a “Four-Way Stop” as provided in the
above-mentioned Manual are met;
(d) That no rule or regulation shall
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle
or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised Code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded;
and
(e) The City shall regulate parking
in the following manner: Prohibit
parking under Section 4511.66 of the
Revised Code unless otherwise controlled by local ordinance or resolution.
Section 6. Right-of-Way
(a) That all existing street and
public right-of-way within the City
which is necessary for the Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required, the City
will arrange for the acquisition.
Section 7. Utilities
(a) That the City will make
arrangements
with
and
obtain
arrangements from all privatelyowned public utility companies
whose lines or structures will be
affected by the Improvement, and the
companies have agreed to make any
and all necessary arrangements in
such a manner as to be clear of any
construction called for by the plans
for the Improvement, and the companies have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City.
(b) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of governmentally-owned utility facilities
which come within the provisions of
Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement
Eligibility) of the Ohio Department of
Transportation’s Real Estate Policies
and Procedures Manual to the same
extent that it participates in the other
costs of the Improvement, provided,
however, that such participation will
not extend to any additions or betterments of existing facilities.
(c) That it is agreed that the City
shall, at its own expense, make all
rearrangements of water mains, service, lines, fire hydrants, valve boxes,
sanitary sewers, or other city-owned
utilities and/or appurtenances thereto which do not comply with the Provisions of Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement Eligibility) of the Ohio
Department of Transportation’s Real
Estate Policies and Procedures Manual, whether inside or outside the corporate limits, as may be necessary to
conform to the Improvement.

630

May 6, 2015
(d) That the construction, reconstruction, and/or arrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner as
not to interfere unduly with the operation of the contractor constructing
the Improvement, and all backfilling
of trenches made necessary by utility
rearrangements shall be performed
under the provisions of the ODOT
Construction and Material Specifications.
Section 8. Miscellaneous
(a) That if the County is formally
requested by ordinance of this Council to include the construction of sanitary sewers, water lines, area sewers
(drainage of area surrounding the
Improvement), sidewalks, alternate
bid items, or other items in the
Improvement that are in addition to
those now existing and not provided
for elsewhere in this ordinance, the
County will do so, provided that the
construction meets with the approval
of the County and the City involved in
this Improvement; and that the City
agrees to pay, or make arrangements
for the payment of the cost of the construction, cost of preliminary and
design engineering, and construction
supervision.
(b) For purposes of this ordinance,
the agent for the County and liaison
officer shall be the County Engineer
of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and/or
such members of his staff as he may
designate.
(c) That the City agrees to conduct
this transaction by electronic means
and agrees that all documents requiring County signatures may be executed by electronic means, and that the
electronic signatures affixed by the
County to the documents shall have
the same legal effect as if that signature was manually affixed to a paper
version of the document. The City
also agrees on behalf of the aforementioned entities and persons to be
bound by the provisions of Chapters
304 and 1306 of the Revised Code as
they pertain to electronic transactions, and to comply with the electronic signature policy of the County.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
agreements necessary to complete the
Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
the County for approval to use County
Motor Vehicle License Tax funds to
pay for the Improvement, to accept
the funds and to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes set
forth above.
Section 11. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements as is necessary to
make the improvements described in
this ordinance. The consideration to
be paid for the property and easements shall not exceed fair market
value to be determined by the Board
of Control.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,

May 6, 2015
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 13. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 14. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this
ordinance immediately on its taking
effect.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 517-15.
By Council Members Polensek, J.
Johnson, K. Johnson and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
County of Cuyahoga for the resurfacing of Eddy Road from St. Clair
Avenue to Interstate 90; authorizing
the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into agreements; to apply for
and accept an allocation of County
Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds;
and authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire
any real property and easements necessary for the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Consent. That it is
declared to be in the public interest
that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given to the County of Cuyahoga (the “County”) to construct the
following improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the County: resurfacing
of Eddy Road from St. Clair Avenue to
Interstate 90 (County ID No. 1173)
(the “Improvement”).
Section 2. Cooperation
(a) That the City will cooperate
with the County in the Improvement.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications, including
necessary engineering reports for the
Improvement, under Current Cuyahoga County standards for construction of County roads and bridges.
(c) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction project.
(d) That the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the County
to be not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement.
Section 3. Funding
(a) That the City agrees to cooperate with the County in the cost of the
Improvement by an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Fund; and by applying to the
County to use the License Tax Funds
for the Improvement.
(b) That the County shall secure
and/or contribute one-hundred percent

The City Record
(100%) of the cost of design, construction, and construction supervision.
(c) That if funds administered by
the Ohio Public Works Commission
are used for the Improvement, the
amount of the funds shall be applied
to the County’s share of the costs specified in this ordinance.
Section 4. Maintenance. That upon
completion of the Improvement, the
City will keep the highway open to
traffic at all times; and
(a) Maintain the Improvement in
accordance with the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial provisions for the
maintenance;
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstructions in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands or other private installations
within the right-of-way limits;
(c) That the County shall continue
to maintain the structural elements of
any bridge (defined as a structure
with a span of twenty feet or greater)
located within the limits of the
Improvement under the applicable
sections of the Revised Code; and
(d) After construction of the
Improvement is complete, the City
agrees to follow and maintain postconstruction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency.
Section 5. Traffic. That on completion of the Improvement, the City will
keep the highway open to traffic at
all times; and
(a) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices conforming to the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices on the Improvement in
compliance with the provisions of Section 4511.11 of the Revised Code and
other related sections of the Revised
Code;
(b) That the street or highway
within the limits of the Improvement
is designated a through highway as
provided in division (A)(6) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code;
(c) That stop signs affecting the
movement of traffic on the street or
highway within the Improvement
shall be removed, and no stop signs
shall be erected on same except at its
intersection with another through
highway where traffic does not warrant the installation of a traffic control signal but where the warrants for
a “Four-Way Stop” as provided in the
above-mentioned Manual are met;
(d) That no rule or regulation shall
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle
or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised Code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded;
and
(e) The City shall regulate parking
in the following manner: Prohibit
parking under Section 4511.66 of the
Revised Code unless otherwise controlled by local ordinance or resolution.
Section 6. Right-of-Way
(a) That all existing street and
public right-of-way within the City
which is necessary for the Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required, the City
will arrange for the acquisition.

631

9
Section 7. Utilities
(a) That the City will make
arrangements
with
and
obtain
arrangements from all privatelyowned public utility companies
whose lines or structures will be
affected by the Improvement, and the
companies have agreed to make any
and all necessary arrangements in
such a manner as to be clear of any
construction called for by the plans
for the Improvement, and the companies have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City.
(b) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of governmentally-owned utility facilities
which come within the provisions of
Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement
Eligibility) of the Ohio Department of
Transportation’s Real Estate Policies
and Procedures Manual to the same
extent that it participates in the other
costs of the Improvement, provided,
however, that such participation will
not extend to any additions or betterments of existing facilities.
(c) That it is agreed that the City
shall, at its own expense, make all
rearrangements of water mains, service, lines, fire hydrants, valve boxes,
sanitary sewers, or other city-owned
utilities and/or appurtenances thereto which do not comply with the Provisions of Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement Eligibility) of the Ohio
Department of Transportation’s Real
Estate Policies and Procedures Manual, whether inside or outside the corporate limits, as may be necessary to
conform to the Improvement.
(d) That the construction, reconstruction, and/or arrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner as
not to interfere unduly with the operation of the contractor constructing
the Improvement, and all backfilling
of trenches made necessary by utility
rearrangements shall be performed
under the provisions of the ODOT
Construction and Material Specifications.
Section 8. Miscellaneous
(a) That if the County is formally
requested by ordinance of this Council to include the construction of sanitary sewers, water lines, area sewers
(drainage of area surrounding the
Improvement), sidewalks, alternate
bid items, or other items in the
Improvement that are in addition to
those now existing and not provided
for elsewhere in this ordinance, the
County will do so, provided that the
construction meets with the approval
of the County and the City involved in
this Improvement; and that the City
agrees to pay, or make arrangements
for the payment of the cost of the construction, cost of preliminary and
design engineering, and construction
supervision.
(b) For purposes of this ordinance,
the agent for the County and liaison
officer shall be the County Engineer
of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and/or
such members of his staff as he may
designate.
(c) That the City agrees to conduct
this transaction by electronic means
and agrees that all documents requiring County signatures may be executed by electronic means, and that the
electronic signatures affixed by the
County to the documents shall have
the same legal effect as if that signature was manually affixed to a paper
version of the document. The City

10
also agrees on behalf of the aforementioned entities and persons to be
bound by the provisions of Chapters
304 and 1306 of the Revised Code as
they pertain to electronic transactions, and to comply with the electronic signature policy of the County.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
agreements necessary to complete the
Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
the County for approval to use County
Motor Vehicle License Tax funds to
pay for the Improvement, to accept
the funds and to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes set
forth above.
Section 11. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements as is necessary to
make the improvements described in
this ordinance. The consideration to
be paid for the property and easements shall not exceed fair market
value to be determined by the Board
of Control.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 13. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 14. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this
ordinance immediately on its taking
effect.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 518-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for improving St. Clair
Avenue from Old River Road to West
9th Street and East 13th Street to East
55th Street; to apply for and accept
any gifts or grants from any public or
private entity; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
any relative agreements; and causing
payment of the City’s share to the
State for the cost of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repairing and resurfacing St. Clair Avenue
from Old River Road to West 9th
Street and East 13th Street to East
55th Street, PID No. 100158 (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $786,000, but the estimated
amount is to be adjusted in order that
the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,

632

May 6, 2015
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity, including but not limited to
NOACA; and that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 10. That, when appropriate,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the railroads, Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
District and other entities to obtain
services or to acquire property rights
such as easements and licenses, necessary to construct the improvements
described in this ordinance.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from public or private entities, for infrastructure
restoration costs associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the
improvement.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the improvement.
Section 13. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 14. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563, and any all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 0103, RL
2015-70.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take

May 6, 2015
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 519-15.
By Council Members Kazy, Keane,
K. Johnson and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for improving West
150th Street from Industrial Parkway
to Lorain Avenue; to apply for and
accept any gifts or grants from any
public or private entity; authorizing
the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into any relative agreements;
and causing payment of the City’s
share to the State for the cost of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repairing and resurfacing West 150th Street
from Industrial Parkway to Lorain
Avenue,
PID
No.
100160
(the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $629,200, but the estimated
amount is to be adjusted in order that
the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,

The City Record
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity, including but not limited to
NOACA; and that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 10. That, when appropriate,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the railroads, Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
District and other entities to obtain
services or to acquire property rights
such as easements and licenses, necessary to construct the improvements
described in this ordinance.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept

633

11
cash contributions from public or private entities, for infrastructure
restoration costs associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the
improvement.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the improvement.
Section 13. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 14. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563, and any all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 0103, RL
2015-73.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 520-15.
By Council Members Keane, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for improving Warren
Road from Munn Road to Interstate
90; to apply for and accept any gifts or
grants from any public or private
entity; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into any relative agreements; and causing payment of the City’s share to the State
for the cost of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repairing and resurfacing Warren Road
from Munn Road to Interstate 90, PID
No. 100159 (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the

12
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $273,980, but the estimated
amount is to be adjusted in order that
the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist

The City Record
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity, including but not limited to
NOACA; and that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 10. That, when appropriate,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the railroads, Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
District and other entities to obtain
services or to acquire property rights
such as easements and licenses, necessary to construct the improvements
described in this ordinance.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from public or private entities, for infrastructure
restoration costs associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the
improvement.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the improvement.
Section 13. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 14. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, and
20 SF 563, and any all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 0103, RL
2015-71.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 521-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Buckeye Shaker
Square Development Corporation to
encroach into the public rights-of-way
within the neighborhoods of BuckeyeShaker, Larchmere, and Woodland
Hills by installing, using, and maintaining sixteen wooden posts and
eighteen signs, to be attached to
Cleveland Public Power utility poles
(by separate permission of the pole
owner) to identify four community
walking routes.

634

May 6, 2015
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation, 11802 Buckeye
Rd, Cleveland, Ohio, 44120 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the public
rights-of-way within the neighborhoods of Buckeye-Shaker, Larchmere,
and Woodland Hills by installing,
using, and maintaining sixteen
8’x4”x4” wooden posts and eighteen
signs, to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power utility poles (by separate permission of the pole owner) to
identify four community walking
routes, at the following locations:
1. Northeast corner of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive. & Dickens
Avenue (HEAL)
2. Northeast corner of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive. & Forest
Avenue (HEAL)
3. Northeast corner of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive. & Buckeye
Road (CPP)
4. Southeast corner of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive. & Shaker
Boulevard (HEAL)
5. Northeast corner of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive. & Shaker
Boulevard. (HEAL)
6. Northwest corner of Shaker
Boulevard & East 116th Street.
(HEAL)
7. Southeast corner of Martin
Luther King Jr. Boulevard & East
110th Street (HEAL)
8. Northwest corner of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive & East 116th
Street. (HEAL)
9. Southwest corner of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive. & Woodland
Avenue (HEAL)
10. Northeast corner of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive & Larchmere
Boulevard (CPP)
11. Northwest corner of Larchmere
Boulevard & East 121st Street. (CPP)
12. Northwest corner of Mt. Overlook Ave. & East 121st Street (CPP)
13. Northwest corner of Mt. Overlook Avenue & East 124th Street
(CPP)
14. Southwest corner of East 124th
Street & Britton Drive (CPP)
15. Shaker Boulevard & Shaker
Square (NW quadrant; in front of Balaton, near the mailbox) (HEAL)
16. Southwest corner of N. Moreland
Boulevard & Larchmere Boulevard
(CPP)
17. Southwest corner of East 130th
Street & Larchmere Boulevard (CPP)
18. Southwest corner of E. 128th
Street
&
Larchmere
Boulevard
(HEAL)
19. Southwest corner of E. 127th
Street & Larchmere Boulevard (CPP)
20. Southwest corner of E. 126st
Street & Larchmere Boulevard (CPP)
21. Southeast corner of Shaker
Boulevard E. & East 116th Street
(CPP)
22. 11710 Shaker Boulevard (E. of
fire hydrant) (CPP)
23. Southeast corner of East 121st
Street & Shaker Boulevard E. (CPP)
24. South side of 12700 Shaker
Boulevard (HEAL )
25. South side of Shaker Boulevard
and S.E. Quad of Shaker Square
(CPP)

May 6, 2015
26. Northwest corner of East 118th
Street & Buckeye Road (CPP)
27. Southwest corner of East 118th
Street & Buckeye Road (HEAL)
28. Northeast corner of East 116th
Street & Buckeye Road (CPP)
29. Southwest corner of Fairhill
Road & East 127th Street (12636
Fairhill Road) (HEAL)
30. South side of Fairhill Road
between East 124th Street & East
127th Street (HEAL)
31. Southeast corner of Fairhill
Road & East 124th Street (12400
Fairhill Road) (HEAL)
32. Southeast corner of Britton
Drive & East 124th Street (HEAL)
33. Northeast corner of Fairhill
Road & Martin Luther King Jr. Drive
(HEAL)
34. North side of Fairhill Road opposite Fairhill Garden Apartments
(HEAL)
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
the prospective Permittee has properly indemnified the City against any
loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 522-15.
By Council Members Brady, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Tom Pallas Industries, Inc., or its
designee, to partially finance the
redevelopment and acquisition of the
building located at 2040 West 110th
Street in Cleveland, Ohio, and other
associated costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into one or more various types
of loan agreements and forgivable
loan agreements under the Vacant
Property Initiative with Tom Pallas
Industries, Inc., or its designee, to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the redevelopment and acquisition of the building located at 2040 West 110th Street
in Cleveland, Ohio, and other associated costs necessary to redevelop the
property.
Section 2. That the terms of the loan
shall be according to the terms set
forth in the Legislative Summary contained in File No. 522-15-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, and are
approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the costs of the loan
or forgivable loan agreements shall
not exceed $400,000, and shall be paid
from Fund No. 17 SF 008, RQS 9501, RL
2015-74.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept such collateral as the director
determines is sufficient in order to
secure repayment of the loan.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment of the
loan and to deposit the monies in
Fund Nos. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
fees under federal regulations and
the fees are appropriated to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
the loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. The contract authorized
in this legislation will require the
recipient of financial assistance to
work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No. 3
to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities related to
the City’s contracts, and place special
emphasis on the hard to employ,
including but not limited to the disabled and persons who have been convicted of or have pled guilty to a criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances
relate to the duties for the particular
job sought.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.

635

13
Ord. No. 523-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
employ one or more professional consultants to survey City streets and to
and collect and input data necessary
to implement the Pavement Management Program, for a period up to five
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to survey City streets and to collect and
input data necessary to implement
the Pavement Management Program,
for a period up to five years.
The selection of the consultant or
consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Capital
Projects from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Capital Projects for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation to
be paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract
or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Capital
Projects, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 20 SF 520, 20 SF
528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20
SF 554, 20 SF 563, and any and all
funds approved by the Director of
Finance, including future bond funds
if issued for this purpose, Request No.
RQS 0103, RL 2015-67.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Committees
on Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 524-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to employ
one or more professional consultants
to provide workers’ compensation and
actuarial services, for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

14
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary for a
comprehensive workers compensation program, including but not limited to, actuarial and auditing services,
disability and account management,
preparing reports, scheduling and
payment of medical exams, claims
settlement, handicap reimbursement,
investigations, and filing claims
appeals and other duties for a one
year period, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Finance.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Finance from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Finance for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract
or contracts authorized shall be paid
from Fund No. 01-1501-6380, Request
No. RQS 1501, RL 2015-80.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 525-15.
By Council Members Mitchell, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio to repair and resurface
East 93rd Street from Union Avenue
to Kinsman Road; to apply for and
accept any gifts or grants for this purpose from any public or private entity; authorizing one or more contracts
with consultants and any other relative agreements; and authorizing the
acquisition of any real property and
easements necessary to make the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: repair
and resurface East 93rd Street pavement from Union Avenue to Kinsman
Road (US-411/SR-8), PID No. 100098
(the “Improvement”).

The City Record
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal-aid funds set aside
by the Director of Transportation for
the financing of the Improvement
from funds allocated by the Federal
Highway
Administration,
United
States Department of Transportation.
The City agrees to assume one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of preliminary engineering, right-of-way
and environmental documentation.
Also, the City agrees to assume and
contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the State not
eligible or made necessary by the
Improvement.
Section 3. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 4. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 5. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 6. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist

636

May 6, 2015
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
7.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 8. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity, including but not limited to
NOACA; and that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional design, engineering and
construction services necessary for
the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Capital Projects from
a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Capital Projects for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director
of Capital Projects and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 10. That, when appropriate,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the railroads, Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
District and other entities to obtain
services or to acquire property rights
such as easements and licenses, necessary to construct the improvements
described in this ordinance.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from public or private entities, for infrastructure
restoration costs associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the
Improvement. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into agreements with the entities for
this purpose.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with private utility companies to pay charges
for the installation of underground
lines in connection with the Improvement.
Section 13. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, accept, and record for rightof-way purposes any real property
and easements as is necessary to
make the improvements described in
this ordinance. The consideration to
be paid for the property and easements shall not exceed fair market
value.
Section 14. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute

May 6, 2015
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire, accept, and
record the property and easements
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 15. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the Improvement.
Section 16. That the cost of the contracts, payments, property acquisition, cash matches, and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited any gift or grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance, cash matches, cash contributions accepted and
appropriated under this ordinance,
and from any and all funds approved
by the Director of Finance, including
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose.
Section 17. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 18. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 526-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
execute a deed of easement granting
to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation
certain easement rights in property
located on a portion of Fire Station
No. 10, at 1935 East 101st Street; and
declaring that the easement rights
granted are not needed for the City’s
public use.
Whereas, The Cleveland Clinic
Foundation
(“The
Clinic”)
has
requested the Director of Public Safety to convey certain easement rights
in property located on a portion of
Permanent Parcel No. 119-10-018 at
Fire Station No. 10, at 1935 East 101st
Street; and
Whereas, The Clinic requires an
easement to install electric distribution lines; and
Whereas, the easement rights to be
granted are not needed for the City’s
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
an easement interest in the following
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:

The City Record
CLEVELAND CLINIC
PERMANENT EASEMENT
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
being part of the Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 401 and located within a
record parcel of land as conveyed to
the City of Cleveland by deed as
recorded in Deed Volume 85-1262,
Page 37; of the Cuyahoga County
Records and more particularly bounded and described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of
the southerly right-of-way of Chester
Avenue (86') and easterly right-ofway of East 101st Street (60');
Thence South 00°35'13" West, a distance of 165.14 feet along the easterly
right-of-way of said East 101st Street
to the POINT OF BEGINNING;
Thence North 89°54'02" East, a distance of 199.57 feet to a point;
Thence along the arc of a curve,
deflecting to the right an arc distance
of 33.90' to a point, said arc having a
radius of 34.33', a central angle of
56°34'34" and a chord of 32.54' which
bears South 61°48'41" East, said point
being on the easterly property line of
said City of Cleveland parcel;
Thence South 01°05'27" East, a distance of 2.71 feet along the easterly
property line of said City of Cleveland
parcel to a point;
Thence South 88°54'33" West, a distance of 24.00 feet along the southerly
property line of said City of Cleveland
parcel to a point;
Thence South 27 52'18" West, a distance of 2.19 feet along the southwesterly property line of said City of
Cleveland parcel to a point;
Thence along the arc of a curve,
deflecting to the left an arc distance
of 3.72' to a point, said arc having a
radius of 14.33', a central angle of
14°51'21" and a chord of 3.71' which
bears North 82°40'18" West;
Thence South 89°54'02" West, a distance of 199.81 feet to a point on the
easterly right-of-way of said East
101st Street;
Thence North 00°35'13" East, a distance of 20.00 feet along the easterly
right-of-way of said East 101st Street
to the POINT OF BEGINNING; and
containing more or less 0.1009 acres
and subject to all legal easements,
restrictions, reservations, conditions
and right-of-way of previous record.
Section 2. That the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized
to convey the above-described easement interest to The Clinic subject to
any conditions stated in this ordinance, at a price determined to be fair
market value by the Board of Control.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to install electric distribution lines.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be permanent; that the
easement shall not be assignable
without the consent of the Director of
Public Safety; that the easement shall
require that The Clinic provide reasonable insurance, maintain any Clinic improvements located within the
easement; pay any applicable taxes
and assessments; and shall contain
such other terms and conditions that
the Director of Law determines to be
necessary to protect and benefit the
City.
Section 5. That the conveyance referenced above shall be made by official deed of easement prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Director of Public Safety on behalf of

637

15
the City of Cleveland. The Directors
of Public Safety and Law are authorized to execute any other documents,
including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as may be
necessary to effect this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
Ord. No. 527-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to terminate and discontinue the 1991 North
Coast Harbor Community Development Plan as authorized by Ordinance No. 1346-91, passed June 17,
1991.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1346-91,
passed June 17, 1991, this Council
approved the North Coast Harbor
Community Development Plan Area
(“1991 Plan”), effective until June
2021, to eliminate conditions of blight
and deterioration and to propose certain types of development in several
key action areas; and
Whereas, due to several changes
within the North Coast Harbor area,
as well as subsequent City Planning
Commission waterfront plans, Council wishes to terminate and discontinue the 1991 Plan and replace it with
the development plan authorized by
Ordinance No. 561-14, passed June 2,
2014, as amended by Ordinance No.
1507-14, passed December 8, 2014; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the 1991 Plan as
approved by Ordinance No. 1346-91,
passed June 17, 1991, is terminated
and discontinued and is replaced with
the development plan authorized by
Ordinance No. 561-14, passed June 2,
2014, as amended by Ordinance No.
1507-14, passed December 8, 2014.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 530-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to add the
name Jamie Ireland Way as a secondary and honorary name to East
105th Street between Park Lane Villa
and Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

The City Record

16
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name Jamie Ireland Way
shall be added as a secondary and
honorary name to East 105th Street
between Park Lane Villa and Euclid
Avenue.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 531-15.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the Lake Shore Bank / Cleveland
Public Library St. Clair Branch Building as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Lake Shore
Bank / Cleveland Public Library St.
Clair Branch Building as a landmark;
and
Whereas, the owner of the Lake
Shore Bank / Cleveland Public
Library St. Clair Branch Building has
been properly notified and has consented in writing to the proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Lake
Shore Bank / Cleveland Public
Library St. Clair Branch Building as a
landmark and has set forth certain
findings of fact constituting the basis
for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health, and
safety in that the immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest
or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

Section 1. That the Lake Shore
Bank / Cleveland Public Library St.
Clair Branch Building whose street
addresses in the City of Cleveland are
5404 St. Clair Avenue, N. E., and 1368
East 55th Street, Cuyahoga County
Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Numbers
are 104-12-001 and 104-12-040, and is
also
known
as
the
following
described property:
Parcel Number 15 (PPN 104-12-001):
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Ten Acre Lot Number 131,
and being more fully bounded and
described as follows:
Bounded Northerly by St. Clair
Avenue, N. E., Easterly by East 55th
Street, Westerly and Southwesterly
by Marquette Street, and being 112
and 16/100 feet front on St. Clair
Avenue, N. E.; 211 and 36/100 feet on
East 55th Street; and 179 and 8/100
feet on Marquette Street, N. E., be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways,
Excepting therefrom a parcel conveyed by the Lake Shore Banking and
Savings Company to the Public
Library Board of the City of Cleveland by Deed dated November 4, 1902,
and recorded in Volume 871, Page 190,
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Parcel Number 16 (PPN 104-12-040):
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Ten Acre Lot Number 131,
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
Easterly line of Marquette Street, N.
E., and the Northwesterly line of East
55th Street, formerly Willson Avenue;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of Marquette Street, N. E., about
124.06 feet to the centerline of a party
wall described in the Deed to the Public Library Board of the City of Cleveland dated November 4, 1902, and
recorded in Volume 871, Page 190 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Easterly along the centerline of the
party wall so described to the Northwesterly line of East 55th Street;
thence Southwesterly along the
Northwesterly line of East 55th Street
to the place of beginning, be the same
more or less;
Which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part of
the development, heritage, or cultural

May 6, 2015
characteristics of the City, State, or
the United States, is designated a
landmark under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section
Division of Engineering & Construction
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 544-15.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an amendment to the agreement with
Saint Martin De Porres High School
Work Study Program, City Contract
No. 2014-108 for additional money in
order to continue participation under
the agreement as a sponsor of students for work/study positions with
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an amendment to the agreement with Saint
Martin De Porres High School Work
Study Program, City Contract No.
2014-108 to add Six Thousand Dollars
($6,000.00) to the agreement in order
to continue participation as a sponsor
of students for work/study positions
with Cleveland City Council. The
additional amount shall be certified
from fund number 01, subfund 001,
department 0101, object 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 532-15.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency ordinance establishing the Bellaire-Puritas Design Review District along Lorain Ave. between W.
140th Street and W. 123rd Street as shown shaded on the attached Map. (Map Change No. 2510).
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has determined that the proposed Bellaire-Puritas Design Review District
meets the criteria for designation outlined in Section 341.04 of Chapter 341 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, Ohio, now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Bellaire-Puritas Design Review District is hereby
established and includes lands located along Lorain Avenue between West 140th Street and West 123rd Street as
shown shaded on the attached map.
Section 2. That the designation of the area described in Section 1 hereof as the Bellaire-Puritas Design Review District
shall be identified as Map Change Number 2510, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for such purpose by the
City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

638

May 6, 2015

The City Record

17

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 528-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Leonard Street N.W.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Leonard Street N.W., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Leonard Street N.W.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being all the remaining
portion of Leonard Street N.W. (50.00
feet wide) extending from that portion of Leonard Street N.W vacated by
ordinance 2691-89, passed December
11, 1989 southwesterly to its terminus.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the

Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Res. No. 529-15.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Reed and Kelley.
An emergency resolution opposing
proposed House Bill 180 and Senate
Bill 152 that would prohibit residency
requirements in local public improvement contracts.
Whereas, recently, Ohio Senator
Joe Uecker and Ohio Representative
Ron Maag proposed companion legislation that would prohibit local
governments from requiring contractors and design professionals to
use local residents in local public
improvement contracts; and
Whereas, in 2004, under its powers of local self-government derived
from the Ohio Constitution, the City
enacted the Fannie M. Lewis Cleveland Resident Employment Law
requiring that every public improvement contract of $100,000 or more
have one or more City residents perform 20% of the total construction
worker hours and that contractors
and subcontractors use significant
effort to ensure no less than 4% of
those resident construction worker
hours are performed by low-income
workers; and
Whereas, the Fannie M. Lewis
Cleveland
Resident
Employment
Law was enacted to alleviate the
lack of use of city residents on

639

Cleveland
construction
projects
found to exist by this Council and
this law is reviewed regularly to
determine whether there is a continuing need to ensure adequate resident employment; and
Whereas, from 2009-2011, Cleveland resident unemployment rate
was 21.2%; the 2000 U.S. Census
rated Cleveland with the highest
unemployment rate among 23 target
cities; out of the 23 target cities only
four have a smaller percentage of
their working residents employed
inside the city’s boundaries than
does Cleveland; and
Whereas, it is incumbent upon
this council to help improve the
quality of life for our residents by,
among other things, helping to
ensure that the unemployed have
the ability to get decent jobs close
to home; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes
proposed House Bill 180 and Senate
Bill 152 that would prohibit residency
requirements in local public improvement contracts.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to all members of
the Ohio legislature.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record

18
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Director of Law; Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 537-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Ride of Silence, on May
20, 2015, sponsored by Bike Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Ride for Silence, on May 20, 2015,
start: Free Stamp in Willard Park—
left onto Lakeside Avenue, E.; right
onto East 12th Street; left onto Euclid
Avenue; slight right to stay on Euclid;
right onto Adelbert Road—University
Hospitals; provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order to
protect the participants in the event.
Said permit shall further provide that
the City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 538-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone and Brady.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Rite Aid 2015 Cleveland
Marathon, Half Marathon and 10K
Course on May 17, 2015, and the 5K
Course on May 16, 2015.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the
Rite
Aid
2015
Cleveland
Marathon, Marathon Course (on May
17, 2015) start: Ontario Street at the
Quicken Loans Arena, northwest corner of the building; straight on
Ontario to Prospect Avenue; turn

right on Prospect to East 9th Street;
turn left on East 9th to Euclid
Avenue; turn right on Euclid to East
18th Street; right on East 18th to
Carnegie Avenue; right on Carnegie,
becomes Lorain Avenue, to West 20th
Street; turn left on West 20th to Abbey
Avenue; turn left on Abbey to West
11th Street left on West 11th to Starkweather Avenue; right on Starkweather to West 14th Street; left on
West 14th to Clark Avenue; right on
Clark to Scranton Road; right on
Scranton to Barber Avenue; left on
Barber to West 25th Street; right on
West 25 to Lorain Avenue; left on
Lorain to West 58th Street; right on
West 58th to Detroit Avenue; left on
Detroit Avenue (in west bound lanes,
with traffic) to Lake Avenue; turn
right (30 degrees) on Lake Avenue to
West Boulevard; turn left West Boulevard to Detroit Avenue; turn right on
Detroit Avenue (in west bound lanes,
with traffic) to West Boulevard; turn
left on West Boulevard to Western
Avenue; right on Western Avenue to
West 103rd Street; right on West 103rd
to Madison Avenue; left on Madison to
West 116th Street; right on West 116th
to Franklin Boulevard; right on
Franklin, becomes West 110th Street,
to Baltic Road; right on Baltic to West
104th Street; left on West 104th to
Clifton Boulevard; left on Clifton (in
west bound lanes with traffic) to
West 110th Street; right on West 110th
to Lake Avenue; left on Lake Avenue
(in east bound lanes, against traffic)
into the City of Lakewood, Ohio; then
from the City of Lakewood east on
Lake Avenue to West 117th Street and
the City of Cleveland; left on West
117th to Edgewater Drive; right on
Edgewater Drive to West Boulevard
and the Cleveland Memorial Shoreway exit ramp; straight on the Cleveland Memorial Shoreway, (in west
bound lanes, against traffic), to
Shoreway exit ramp to West Lakeside
Avenue; bear left at top of Cleveland
Memorial Shoreway exit ramp to
West Lakeside Avenue; straight on
West Lakeside Avenue to Ontario
Street (Cuyahoga County Courthouse)—-FINISH; Half Marathon
Course (on May 17, 2015) start:
Ontario Street at the Quicken Loans
Arena, northwest corner of the building; straight on Ontario to Prospect
Avenue; turn right on Prospect to
East 9th Street; turn left on East 9th
to Euclid Avenue; turn right on
Euclid to East 18th Street; right on
East 18th to Carnegie Avenue; right
on Carnegie, becomes Lorain Avenue,
to West 20th Street; turn left on West
20th to Abbey Avenue; turn left on
Abbey to West 11th Street; left on
West 11th to Starkweather Avenue;
right on Starkweather to West 14th
Street; left on West 14th to Clark
Avenue; right on Clark to Scranton
Road; right on Scranton to Barber
Avenue; left on Barber to West 25th
Street; right on West 25th to Lorain
Avenue; left on Lorain to West 58th
Street; right on West 58th to Detroit
Avenue; left on Detroit Avenue (in
west bound lanes, with traffic) to
Lake Avenue; turn right (30 degrees)
on Lake Avenue to West Boulevard;
West Boulevard to Clifton Boulevard;
(Marathon and Half Marathon Split;
right on Clifton to West 104th Street;
right on West 104th to Lake Avenue;
right on Lake Avenue (in east bound
lanes, with traffic) to West Boulevard/Cleveland Memorial Shoreway
entrance ramp; bear left at entrance
ramp, stay on Cleveland Memorial

640

May 6, 2015
Shoreway to West Lakeside Avenue
exit ramp; bear right at top of West
Lakeside exit ramp to West Lakeside
Avenue; straight on West Lakeside
Avenue to just west Ontario Street
(Cuyahoga County Courthouse—FINISH; 10K Course (on May 17, 2015)
start: Ontario Street at Quicken Loans
Arena, northwest corner of the building; straight on Ontario to Prospect
Avenue; right on Prospect to East 9th
Street; left on East 9th to Euclid
Avenue; right on Euclid to East 18th
Street; right on East 18th to Carnegie
Avenue; right on Carnegie, becomes
Lorain Avenue, to West 25th Street;
right on West 25th to Franklin Boulevard; left on Franklin to West 54th
Street; right on West 54th to Herman
Avenue; right on Herman Avenue to
Cleveland
Memorial
Shoreway
entrance/exit ramp; bear left on
entrance ramp to Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway; straight on Cleveland
Memorial Shoreway (in west bound
lanes, against traffic) to shoreway
exit ramp at West Lakeside Avenue;
bear left at top of Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway/West Lakeside Avenue
entrance ramp to West Lakeside
Avenue; straight on West Lakeside
Avenue to just west on Ontario Street
(Cuyahoga County Courthouse)—
FINISH; 5K Course (on May 16, 2015)
start: Edgewater Park (upper section-access from West Boulevard)
near east end parking lot; straight on
the Edgewater Park Upper Section
entrance/exit road to West Boulevard; bear left at West Boulevard to
Lake Avenue; left on Lake Avenue to
West 76th Street; left at West 76th to
Herman Avenue; right at Herman to
West 73rd Street; left at West 73rd to
Father Frascati Avenue; left on
Father Frascati Avenue to West 74th
Street; left on West 74th to Goodwalt
Avenue; right on Goodwalt to West
76th Street; right on West 76th to
Cleveland MetroParks (railroad)
Underpass; straight through the
Cleveland MetroParks (railroad)
Underpass to Pedestrian/Bike Path
Loop; right at the Pedestrian/Bike
Path Loop, complete loop counterclockwise to Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway Underpass; right at Cleveland Memorial Shoreway Underpass
to Edgewater Park (lower section)
Pedestrian/Bike Path; merge right at
Edgewater Park (lower section)
Pedestrian/Bike Path, complete path
loop counterclockwise to Pavilions
(eastside of beach)—FINISH; provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

May 6, 2015
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 539-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Economic Development to enter into
an agreement with Tonda Lanton or
designee for the Crawford Building
Project through the use of Ward 9
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of the Department of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Tonda
Lanton or designee for the Crawford
Project located at 1204 – 1212 East
105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44108 for
the public purpose of exterior
improvements for local area businesses resulting in new job creation for
Cleveland residents through the use
of Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $12,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 540-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with Building Bridges
Collaborative, Inc., for the Migration
Arts Education Project through the
use of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement effective February 1, 2015
with Building Bridges Collaborative,
Inc., for the Migration Arts Education
Project for the public purpose of providing art and mediation education
through the use of Ward 3 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said

The City Record
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 541-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Economic Development to enter into
an
agreement
with
Alphonso
Mitchum or designee for the Al’s Deli
Project through the use of Ward 9
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of the Department of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Alphonso Mitchum or designee for the Al’s
Deli Project located at 10604 Superior
Ave, Cleveland, Ohio 44106 for the
public purpose of exterior improvements for local area businesses
resulting in new job creation for
Cleveland residents through the use
of Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $12,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 533-15.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of liquor license of a
D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
7513 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of liquor license of a D2, D2X,

641

19
D3 and D3A Liquor Permit from
Triple
Threat,
Inc.,
DBA
Club
Odyssey, 6735 St. Clair Avenue, 1st
floor, S/Portion, Cleveland, Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
90530790001 to Triple Threat, Inc.,
DBA Club Odyssey, 7513 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 90530790002; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from Triple
Threat, Inc., DBA Club Odyssey, 6735
St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor, S/Portion,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 90530790001 to Triple Threat,
Inc., DBA Club Odyssey, 7513 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 90530790002; and
requests the Superintendent of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeits
adoption
and
diately
upon
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.

20
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 534-15.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to 10929 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Swift Foods, Inc., DBA
Swift Food Mart, 10929 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number 8738908 to OW10929,
LLC, DBA Swift Food Mart, 10929 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 66094440005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from
Swift Foods, Inc., DBA Swift Food
Mart, 10929 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number
8738908 to OW10929, LLC, DBA Swift
Food Mart, 10929 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent
Number 66094440005; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a

The City Record
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 535-15.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 3700
Superior Avenue, #E.
Whereas, Council has been notified by of an the Division of Liquor
Control application for a New C2
Liquor Permit at Nak Won Oriental
Food, Inc., DBA Kims Oriental Food,
3700 Superior Avenue, #E, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
9751107; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Nak Won Oriental
Food, Inc., DBA Kims Oriental Food,
3700 Superior Avenue, #E, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
9751107; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.

642

May 6, 2015
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 536-15.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 1417-1423
East 21st Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Hayes Development Group, LLC, DBA Mardi Gras,
1417-1423 East 21st Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
3693706 to Zon Investments, LLC,
1417-1423 East 21st Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
9957550; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

May 6, 2015
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from Hayes Development Group,
LLC, DBA Mardi Gras, 1417-1423 East
21st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 3693706 to Zon Investments, LLC, 1417-1423 East 21st Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 9957550; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 542-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit to 75
Public Square, Suite B-100.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit from Underground Entertainment, Inc., DBA
Underground,
75
Public
Square,
Suite B-100, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permanent Number 9148958 to Public Square Pizza, LLC, DBA Public
Square, Suite B-100, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 7107927;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

The City Record

21

Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6
Liquor Permit from Underground
Entertainment, Inc., DBA Underground, 75 Public Square, Suite B-100,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 9148958 to Public Square
Pizza, LLC, DBA Public Square, Suite
B-100, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 7107927; and requests
the Superintendent of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.

Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.

Res. No. 543-15.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor
Permit at 6718 St. Clair Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 361-15,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit at PZB,
LLC, DBA Prijatels Pharmacy, 6718
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 7128579 by
Resolution No. 361-15 adopted by the
Council on March 30, 2015; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at PZB, LLC, DBA
Prijatels Pharmacy, 6718 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 7128579, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 361-15, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.

Ord. No. 379-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission to enter into an amendment to Contract No. 55936, as amended, with Omni Media Cleveland, Inc.
to change the terms of the agreement.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

643

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 20-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to enact new
Section 131.37; and to amend Section
131.35, amended by Ordinance No. 45914, passed June 9, 2014, relating to
rental of League Park Baseball Field
and Visitors Center.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at new Section
131.37(k), line four, strike “improvements to the Complex.” and insert
“improvements to the Complex and
for City events held at the Complex.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 435-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant and HOME funds for administrative expenses of the Department of
Community Development.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.

22
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 436-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into or amend contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations and
private for profit entities; to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City of
Cleveland departments to implement
the City’s community development
programs; and to expend funds for the
operation of programs administered
by the Department of Community
Development.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 488-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for improving the North
and South Marginal Roads from East
9th Street to East 55th Street; to apply
for and accept any gifts or grants
from any public or private entity;
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements; and causing payment of
the City’s share to the State for the
cost of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 489-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to employ
one or more professional consultants
to provide administration of Family
and Medical Leave Act benefits for
City employees, for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of
Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 490-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an amendment to Contract No. RC
2010-135 with Meritech, Inc. to continue for two-years the rental of Group I,
II, and III copiers and services for the
various divisions of City government.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 491-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
various sections of Ordinance No. 32315, passed March 30, 2015, as amended
by various ordinances, relating to
compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Ord. No. 450-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to add
the name Jamie Ireland Way as a
secondary and honorary name to
East
Boulevard
between
Euclid
Avenue and Bellflower Road.
Without objection Ordinance No.
450-15 was relieved of further consideration of all committees and laid
on the table pursuant to Rules of
Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
Ordinance No. 450-15
16. Nays 0.
Laid on the Table.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
K. Johnson, the absence of Council
Member Matthew Zone is hereby
authorized.
Seconded by Council
Member Keane.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:34 p.m. to meet on Monday, May 11,
2015, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

April 29, 2015
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 29, 2015
at 10:40 a.m. with Acting Director
Horvath presiding.

644

May 6, 2015
Present: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Acting Director Shaw, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Baker, Withers,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Fumich
and
O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Southerington and Nichols.
Others: Tiffany White, Commissioner, Division of Purchases & Supplies.
Melissa Burrows, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
Matthew Spronz, Director, Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 152-15.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 735-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 4, 2012, and Resolution No. 61012, adopted by this Board on November 21, 2012, the City, through the
Director of Finance, entered into
Contract No. PS2013-043 with MCPc,
Inc. to obtain professional services
supplementing the City’s regularly
employed staff necessary to update
and improve network infrastructure,
Microsoft
Exchange
and
Active
Directory
and
City-wide
applications, and approved various
sub-consultants, including Avvenire
Solutions, LLC; and
Whereas, MCPc, Inc. has requested the City’s consent to employ BPI
Information Systems, Inc. as a substitute sub-consultant under Contract No. PS2013-043 to complete the
upgrade of City-wide applications
that was to have been performed by
Avvenire Solutions, LLC; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of BPI Information
Systems, Inc. by MCPc, Inc. as a substitute for sub-consultant Avvenire
Solutions, LLC under Contract No.
PS2013-043 is approved.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Acting Director Shaw, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Baker, Withers,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Fumich
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Southerington and Nichols.
Resolution No. 153-15.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1080-99, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on May 22,
2000, and Board of Control Resolution No. 808-00, adopted December 6,
2000, the City of Cleveland, through
the Director of Public Utilities,
entered into City Contract No. 57651
with Montgomery Watson Americas,
Inc. to acquire implementation consultant services for the citywide
Geographic Information System Program, for the various divisions of
City government; and
Whereas, the citywide Geographic
Information System runs on the
Environmental
Systems
Research
Institute, Inc. (ESRI) software platform, and support, maintenance, and
licenses must be renewed annually
for proper use and support of the
citywide GIS software and applications; and
Whereas, division (c) of Section
181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of

The City Record

May 6, 2015
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (“C.O.”) authorizes a director to execute one or
more license agreements for software needed to implement or maintain a previously acquired software
system directly with software licensing firm; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with a software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain
the
software
system,
including but not limited to maintenance, repair, upgrades, enhancements and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
Environmental
Systems
Research
Institute, Inc. (ESRI) to renew the
necessary software licenses and to
obtain the professional services necessary to continue support and
maintenance for the citywide GIS
software and applications for one
year starting June 1, 2015; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid for license fees
and for maintenance and support
services to be performed under the
contract with Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI)
for the one-year term starting June
1, 2015 shall not exceed $196,749.19.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Acting Director Shaw, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Baker, Withers,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Fumich
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Southerington and Nichols.
Resolution No. 154-15.
By Interim Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Terrace Construction Co.,
Inc. for the public improvement of
Rosecliff
Road
Storm
Sewer
Replacement Project (Base Bid All
Items including the 10% contingency allowance) for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, received on
February 27, 2015, under the authority of Ordinance No. 991-14, passed
November 17, 2014, upon a unit basis
for the improvement, in the aggreamount
of
$272,090.03,
is
gate
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into contract for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction Co., Inc. for the
public
improveabove-mentioned
ment is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK

Rockport Construction
CSB/FBE
$38,637.00(14.200%)
The Vallejo Company
CSB/FBE
$13,843.00(5.088%)
Cook Paving

CSB/MBE
$31,658.00(11.64%)

Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Acting Director Shaw, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Baker, Withers,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Fumich
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Southerington and Nichols.
Resolution No. 155-15.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received for the public improvement
of
centralized
checked
baggage
inspection system, all items, for the
Department of Port Control, received
April 10, 2015, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 220-15, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
April 14, 2015, are rejected.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Dumas,
Director/Interim
Director
Acting Director Shaw, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Baker, Withers,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Fumich
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Southerington and Nichols.
Resolution No. 156-15.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Precision Environmental
Co. for the public improvement of
the Highland Park Mausoleum Hazardous Conditions Abatement, Base
Bid Package 3 and Optional Item A3 for the Department of Public
Works, received on November 5, 2014
under the authority of Ordinance No.
537-12, passed May 14, 2012, upon a
gross price basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
$47,900.00 is affirmed and approved
as the lowest responsible bid; and
the Director of the Department of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into contract with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Precision Environmental Co. is hereby
approved:
CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

Subcontractor
Amount
Enviro Serve
$22,277.00

Non Certified
46.507%

Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Acting Director Shaw, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Baker, Withers,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Fumich
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Southerington and Nichols.
Resolution No. 157-15.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 127-13-001, 127-13-002, 127-13-047
and 127-13-051 located on East 93rd
Street and Laisy Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,

645

23
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Valerie J. McCall has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcels for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Valerie J. McCall
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 127-13-001, 127-13002, 127-13-047 and 127-13-051 located
on East 93rd Street and Laisy
Avenue, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $800.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: None.
Nays: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Acting Director Shaw, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Baker, Withers,
and
Fumich
Cosgrove,
Directors
O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Southerington and Nichols.
Resolution No. 158-15.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 127-13-001, 127-13-002, 127-13-047
and 127-13-051 located on East 93rd
Street and Laisy Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Valarie J. McCall has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcels for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed

24
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Valarie J. McCall
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 127-13-001, 127-13002, 127-13-047 and 127-13-051 located
on East 93rd Street and Laisy
Avenue, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $800.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Acting Director Shaw, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Baker, Withers,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Fumich
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Southerington and Nichols.
Resolution No. 159-15.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos., 110-31-008 and 110-31-009 located at 11445 Superior Avenue and
11415 Superior Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcels for the construction and
maintenance
of
Northeast
Ohio
Regional Sewer District’s Dugway
South Tunnel and Doan Valley Tunnel Project; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community

The City Record
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 110-31-008 and 110-31-009
located at 11445 Superior Avenue
and 11415 Superior Avenue, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $28,780.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Acting Director Shaw, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Baker, Withers,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Fumich
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Southerington and Nichols.
Resolution No. 160-15.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 133-14-012 located at 7915 Harvard Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas,
The
Most
Reverend
Richard G. Lennon, Bishop of the
Roman Catholic Diocese of Cleveland as trustee for Holy Name
Parish, has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
green space; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has either approved the
proposed sale or has not disapproved or requested a hold of the
proposed sale within 45 days of notification of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with The Most Reverend Richard G. Lennon, Bishop of
the Roman Catholic Diocese of
Cleveland as trustee for Holy Name
Parish, for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 133-14-012
located at 7915 Harvard Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel

646

May 6, 2015
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Acting Director Shaw, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Baker, Withers,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Fumich
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Southerington and Nichols.
Resolution No. 161-15.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, by Resolution No. 150-15,
adopted on April 22, 2015, this Board
fixed the compensation to be paid
Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
(“ADP”)
for
an
upgrade
and
enhancement to the City integrated
payroll and human resources information system based on ADP’s
March 11, 2015 Statement of Work;
and
Whereas, the comply with the
employer-related information reporting provisions of the Affordable
Care Act (“ACA”) by no later than
the January 1, 2016 deadline, the
City requires, in addition to and as
part of the above-mentioned upgrade
and enhancement, an application
system to generate the information
reports the ACA requires; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that Resolution No. 150-15, adopted
April 22, 2015, is amended by revising the fourth paragraph to state
that the upgrade and enhancement
to the City’s payroll and human
is
resources
information
system
“based upon ADP’s statement of
work dated March 11, 2015 and
ADP’s cost proposal dated April 21,
2015,” and by increasing the compensation fixed in the fifth paragraph (“BE IT RESOLVED . . .”) for
the upgrade and enhancement from
an
amount
not
to
exceed
“$204,000.00” to an amount not to
exceed “$374,000.00”.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
150-15 not expressly amended herein
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Acting Director Shaw, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Baker, Withers,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Fumich
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Southerington and Nichols.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final

The City Record

May 6, 2015
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

Zoning Appeals may, however, permit a chain link fence if the Board
determines that such fence is common in the immediate vicinity of the
subject property. (Filed March 20,
2015)
These cases were postponed to
allow for more time for community
engagement. The original postponed
date was June 1, 2015 but a representative from the Development
Corp. requested a change in date.

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2015
9:30 A.M.

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, MAY 11, 2015
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 15-79: 1425 Rockwell
Avenue (Ward 3)
Cleveland Tech Holdings, LLC.,
owner, proposes to erect an 8 foot
tall fence in an E3 Semi-Industry
District. The owner appeals from
the strict application of Section
358.05 which states that an 8 foot
tall fence is not permitted in a SemiIndustry District. (Filed April 21,
2015)

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, MAY 18, 2015
9:30 A.M.
POSTPONED FROM APRIL 20, 2015
Calendar No. 15-57: 3047 West 47th
Street (Ward 3)
Christopher Flynn, owner, proposes to erect a four foot high chain
link fence in the front yard of a residence in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District.
Per
section
358.04(c)(1) in Residential Districts,
only ornamental fences, shall be
installed in actual front yards and
in actual side street yards if located within four (4) feet of the side
street property line. The Board of
Zoning Appeals may, however, permit a chain link fence if the Board
determines that such fence is common in the immediate vicinity of the
subject property. (Filed March 20,
2015)
Calendar No. 15-58: 3051 West 47th
Street (Ward 3)
Christopher Flynn, owner, proposes to erect a four foot high chain
link fence in the front yard of a
vacant lot in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District.
Per
section
358.04(c)(1) in Residential Districts,
only ornamental fences, shall be
installed in actual front yards and
in actual side street yards if located within four (4) feet of the side
street property line. The Board of

Calendar No. 15-76: 2491 West 5th
Street (Ward 3)
Anthony & Michelle Sileo, owners,
propose to erect a 22' x 40' 3 story
frame single family residence with
attached garage on a parcel in a B1
Two-Family
Residential
District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 327.02(e) which states
that no portion of the Building shall
encroach beyond required property
lines (including roof eaves and
foundation wall).
2. Section 349.05(a) which states
that no off street parking space
shall be located within 10 feet of
any wall with ground floor opening
designed to provide light or ventilation (including rear garage door
opening).
3. Section 349.07(a) which states
that accessory off-street parking
spaces, driveways and maneuvering
areas shall be properly graded for
drainage.
4. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the required front yard setback
is 22' and 20' are proposed.
5.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot and 8'
are proposed.
6.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the interior side yards
required are 9' - 6" where 0' and 8'
are proposed.
7.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the interior side yard
required for a front porch is 3' and
2' are proposed. (Filed April 16,
2015)
Calendar No. 15-97: 16901 Grovewood
Avenue (Ward 8)
Ron Bolden, owner, proposes to
change use from a store to a church
in a B1 Two Family Residential District. The owner appeals for relief
from the following sections of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 337.03 which states that
a church is required to be 15 feet
from any adjoining premises in a
residence district not used for a similar purpose by reference per Section
337.02(e).
2. Section 349.04(e) which states
that 6 parking spaces are required
at the rate of one parking space per

647

25
six seats based on maximum seating capacity and one space is proposed. (Filed April 23, 2015)
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 15-98: 3106 Searsdale
Avenue (Ward 13)
Bash Homes LLC., owner, appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances and
disputes the Notice of Violation
V15009112 issued on March 26, 2015
by the Cleveland Department of
Building and Housing for failure to
comply with Sections 327.02 and
327.99 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances regarding changing use
from a 2 family dwelling unit to a
3 family dwelling without a permit.
(Filed April 23, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-99: 4533 Warner
Road (Ward 2)
Rightway
Investments,
owner,
proposes to erect a 6 foot tall chain
link fence in the front and side yard
of a parcel located in a C1 Local
Retail Business District. The owner
appeals for relief from the following
section of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 358.05 which states that
a six (6) foot high fence is not permitted in the front yard and side
street yard in a Local Retail Business District. (Filed April 28, 2015)
POSTPONED FROM
JANUARY 12, 2015
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 14-243: 4960 Pearl Road
(Ward 13)
J.F. Glaze Cleveland, LLC, owner,
appeals under the authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances and disputes the Notice of
Violation
V14035928
issued
on
November 7, 2014 by the Cleveland
Department of Building and Housing for failure to comply with Sections 347.08(A) and 347.08 (C) of the
Cleveland
Codified
Ordinances
regarding locating trash and refuse
containers so that they are not visible from the street or from any lot
designated for residential purposes,
the containers shall be screened
with an opaque fence not lower than
the height of the refuse containers,
shall be placed on a concrete slab
and shall have locking latches that
must be locked at all times. (Filed
December 2, 2014)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant to allow for
time for him to work with the Storefront Renovation Program.
POSTPONED FROM APRIL 27, 2015
Calendar No. 15-65: 5705 Ensign
Avenue (Ward 5)
Carey Holdings Inc., owner, proposes to use property for storage of
fill dirt on 5 parcels located in a C2
Semi-Industry District. The owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 345.03 which states that
outdoor storage of dusty materials
not listed as a permitted use. Said

The City Record

26
use is first permitted in a General
Industry
District
per
Section
345.04(a)(1)(B).
2.
Section
358.05(A)(2)
which
states that fences in actual front
yards and in side street yards shall
not exceed four feet in height.
Fences in actual rear yards and in
actual interior side yards shall not
exceed six feet in height. An eight
foot high fence consisting of seven
feet and one foot of barbed wire
with no setback is proposed.
3. Section 349.07(a) which states
that all vehicle maneuvering areas
shall be paved, and drained within
the lot and no paving or grad
shown. (Filed March 26, 2015)
Postponed at the request of the
board in order to allow for more
time for community input.
The following case has been postponed to July 20, 2015 at the request
of the appellant to allow for the tenant and owner to work out funding
issues for the required fencing:
Calendar No. 14-215: 399 East 131st
Street (Ward 10)
Clement Kollin, owner, proposes
to store fill dirt on a parcel located
in a B3 Semi-Industry District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
following Sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 345.03 which states that
outdoor storage of dusty materials
is not permitted in a Semi-Industry
District but as stated in Section
345.04(a)(1)(B) is first permitted in
a General Industrial District.
2.
Section
345.04(a)(1)(C)(3)
which states that open yard storage
requires a seven foot high, nontransparent fence.
3. Section 349.07(a) which states
that all vehicle maneuvering areas
shall be paved, and drained within
the lot and no paving or drainage is
shown. (Filed October 31, 2014)
First postponement made at the
request of the Board to allow for a
community meeting to take place.
second postponement made at the
request of the appellant to work on
revisions to the plan. third postponement made at the request of the
appellant to work on revisions to
the plan. fourth and final request to
allow for the tenant and owner to
work out funding issues for the
required fencing.
The following case has been postponed to September 14, 2015 at the
request of the appellant to allow for
more time for the easement agreement with the city to be amended
by legislation:
Calendar No. 15-003: 1460 East 9th
Street (Ward 3)
City of Cleveland, owner, and
Hampton Inn, tenant proposes to
install a 5 foot high solid metal gate
in side street yard in an E5 General Retail Business District. The tenant applies for relief from the strict
application of Section 358.05(a)(2)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states a fence/gate in
the side street yard in a General
Retail
Business
District
cannot
exceed four feet in height and must
be at least 50% open above two feet
in height. (Filed January 21, 2015)
Secretary

May 6, 2015

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 4, 2015
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, May 4,
2015 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-238: 1862 East 123rd
Street aka 1885 Coltman
East 123rd Street Properties LTD.,
owner, proposes to erect two new
buildings to house 204 residential
units, with 258 accessory off-street
parking spaces in a B2 Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 15-64: 11125 Magnolia
Drive
Cleveland Music School Settlement, owner, proposes to install a
30' x 40' temporary tent for various
events that will occur from April
9th, 2015 to October 9, 2015.
Calendar No. 15-66: 1112 Kenilworth
Avenue
Kathleen Crowther, owner, proposes to change use to tattooing and
an art gallery in a C1 General
Retail Business District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

Calendar No. 15-59: 14608 Roxboro
Avenue
Mark R. Bast, owner, proposes to
erect a new master bedroom addition to residence in an A1 One-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 15-60: 3322 Broadview
Road
Apolonio Lumaban, owner, proposes to change use to Motor Vehicle
Service Garage for detailing of automobiles in a C2 Local Retail Business District.

The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 14-236: 3401 Denison
Avenue
George Sevastos, owner, proposes
to re-establish use as motor vehicle
sales in a C1 Multi-Family Residential District.
The
following
case
was
AFFIRMED
(variance
rights
extended an additional 6 months):
Calendar No. 14-142: 3675 East 65th
Street
–
Elevate
Gallery
–
affirmed to October 27, 2015.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

were
Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 29, 2015

None
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

None.

As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *

The following cases were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 15-62: Murray Hill Partners LLC
2187 Murray Hill Road.
Postponed to June 1, 2015.
Calendar No. 15-63: Carolyn Bentley
2150 West 18th Street. Postponed
to June 8, 2015.
Calendar No. 15-67: Eric Poole
5405 Storer Avenue. Postponed to
August 3, 2015.
The following cases were heard
and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 27,
2015 and the decisions were adopted
and approved on Monday, May 4,
2015.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 15-35: 1455 West 29th
Street
Ohio City Firehouse, LLC., owner,
proposes to change use of a building located in a D2 Local Retail
Business District from photo lab studio to mixed use, including residences, flower shop and coffee shop.

648

Docket A-22-15.
RE: Appeal of William Gardner,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit
Single-Family Residence One Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 18082 Weston
Road
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated January 16, 2015 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal request for additional time,
and to REMAND the property to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting that no work
has been done. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-31-15.
RE: Appeal of U.S. Bank, N.A. As
Trustee, Trustee of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two &
One/half
Three-Family
Residence

The City Record

May 6, 2015
Two & One/half Story Frame Property, located on the premises known
as 2990 East 65th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated February 5, 2015
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 15, 2015 to
obtain all required permits and until
August 1, 2015 to complete abatement of the violations; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-35-15.
RE: Appeal of Ronald Morris,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
Story
Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry Veneer
Property, located on the premises
known as 11413 Melba Avenue from
a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated February 27, 2015 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-35-15 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
27, 2015.
*    *    *
Docket A-36-15.
RE: Appeal of Donald Kuhar,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 10617 Bernard
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated February 17,
2015 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until September 1, 2015 to
complete abatement of all violations
on the property; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-38-15.
RE: Appeal of Carol Sakac, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 3211 West 112th Street
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
March 2, 2015 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the

Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until August 1, 2015 to
complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervifurther
sion
and
any
required
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-39-15.
RE: Appeal of Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A., Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
Story Frame Property and One Story
Garage – Detached; Wood Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 3344 East 128th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE & GARAGE,
dated February 26, 2015, of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 15, 2015 in
which to obtain all required demolition permits and to repay the City
for the board-up expenses already
incurred, and until June 15, 2015 to
complete demolition of the property;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-41-15.
RE: Appeal of Halloran West LLC,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 3250 West 114th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated March 2, 2015, of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until July 15, 2015 to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-47-15.
RE: Appeal of 2516 Corp., Owner
of the Property, located on the
premises known as 2516 Market
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION

649

27
ORDER, dated March 10, 2015, of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket is
rescheduled for May 13, 2015.
*    *    *
Docket A-56-15.
RE: Appeal of John & Shannon
Spalek, Owner of the Residential
Property, located on the premises
known as 4521 Burger Avenue from
an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated
March 27, 2015, of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the ten (10) feet requirement and permit the pool to be
erected as proposed, noting that the
existing six (6) foot fence must be
maintained, and that if that fence is
removed by the neighbor, this owner
must erect a replacement fence to be
maintained and preserved for the
use of the pool; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
AMENDED RESOLUTION:
Docket A-29-15.
Birlus Wordlaw – 11508 Superior
Avenue:
FROM:….DENY the appeal request
for additional time, noting that the
existing conditions of the property,
no work has been done, and the
Appellant is not present for the
hearing; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action.
TO:.…grant the Appellant until
May 15, 2015 in which to obtain all
required permits and until July 1,
2015 to complete abatement of all
violations on the property, noting
that failure to meet any of the
granted dates, will result in the
property being REMANDED immediately; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action...
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):

The City Record

28
A-24-15 — Chantell Mims-Penland
A-26-15 — Levander Malone
A-27-15 — Brauhaus Cleveland
LLC
A-28-15 — Kirby Ave. Property,
Inc.
A-29-15
—
Birlus
Wordlaw
(AMENDED)
A-30-15
—
Donna
&
Danielle
Haldeman
A-33-15 — Robshir Property
A-34-15 — Mic-Ray Metal Products,
Inc.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.

Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217,
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on Tuesday, May 12, 2015, at 9:30 a.m., to
consider the following ordinances
now pending in the Council:

*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
April 15, 2015
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
– TAXICABS–
NOTICE OF RATES OF FARE
ADJUSTMENT DUE TO COST OF
GASOLINE

Dedrick C. Stephens, Commissioner
Division of Assessments and
Licenses
As of the first Moanday of May,
2015, and one month prior thereto,
the price per gallon for regular
unleaded gasoline for the ClevelandLorain-Elyria Metro Area as published by the Automobile Association of America’s State-by-State Fuel
Price Average Report is less than
$3.00 per gallon.
Therefore, pursuant to CO §443.261(b), the increase
of $1.00 to the rates of fare set forth
in CO §443.26 authorized and published hereto on June 1, 2011, is
hereby repealed and shall take
effect thirty (30) days from the publication of this notice. Pursuant to
CO §443.261(c), each change in the
fare amount shall be applied to the
meter.
A representative of the
Bureau of Weights and Measure
must remove the current security
seal affixed to each taxicab meter
prior to the fare being changed on
the meter.
Dedrick C. Stephens
Commissioner
Division of Assessments and
Licenses
_____
May 6, 2015, May 13, 2015, May 20,
2015, May 27, 2015 and June 3, 2015

_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On Development, Planning
and Sustainability
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Tuesday, May 12, 2015
9:30 a.m.

Ord. No. 249-15.
By Council Member Keane.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
on the southeast corner of Lorain
Avenue and West 150th from GR-C1
to Local Retail Business, a ‘G Area
District and a ‘2’ Height District
(Map Change No. 2505).
Ord. No. 457-15.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
on the northeast corner of Madison
Avenue and West 117th Street from
LR-B3
and
RO-C2
to
Residence
Office, a ‘E’ Area District and a ‘3’
Height District (Map Change No.
2508).
Ord. No. 458-15.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the existing mapped setback of lands on the
northeast corner of Madison Avenue
and West 117th Street from 5' to a
0' mapped setback (Map Change No.
2509).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Anthony Brancatelli, Chair
Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability
April 29, 2015 and May 6, 2015

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to

650

May 6, 2015
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015
File No. 54-15 — Rehabilitation of
MLK, Jr. BLVD Bridge 50.28 (21) & 50.30 (3-1) Over Doan Brook
(Re-Bid), for the Division of
Engineering
and
Construction,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 730-13, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, May 20,
2013.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 7, 2015 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 518, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
File No. 56-15 — Criminal and Civil
Filing System, for the Cleveland
Municipal Court, Department of
Finance, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 8, 2015 AT 10:30 A.M.
CLEVELAND
MUNICIPAL
CLERK OF COURTS, JUSTICE

May 6, 2015
CENTER,
LEVEL
2,
1200
ONTARIO
ST.,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
April 29, 2015 and May 6, 2015
WEDNESDAY, MAY 20, 2015
File No. 58-15 — Capital Maintenance and Repair of City Facilities, for the Division of Property
Management, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Section 131.67 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, MAY 11, 2015 AT 11:00 A.M.
THE CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
DIVISION OF PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, 4150 EAST 49TH,
BLDG. 2, 2ND FLOOR, NEWBURGH HEIGHTS, OHIO 44105.
April 29, 2015 and May 6, 2015
FRIDAY, MAY 22, 2015
File
No.
55-15
—
Centralized
Checked Baggage Inspection System WBS No A1-A230-3 (Re-bid),
for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 22015, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, Pending.
*THERE
WILL
BE
A
NONREFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
DOLLARS
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 7, 2015 AT 1:00
P.M. THE DEPARTMENT OF
PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT, FEDERAL SERVICE
STATION BUILDING, DPC PLANNING AND ENGINEERING, CONFERENCE ROOM 6C-24C, 5301
WEST HANGAR ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
*Bidders must purchase plans and
specifications directly from the
office of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies. Only registered Plan Holders will receive
Addenda. Bids cannot be accepted from Bidders who only purchase plans from other entities
such as Plan Rooms and/or who
fail to register to be on the City
of Cleveland Plan Holders List.
April 29, 2015 and May 6, 2015
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27, 2015
File No. 57-15 — 2015-2018 Department of Finance Citywide Sales
of Scrap Metal Materials (Rebid), for the various Divisions of
City Government, Department of
Finance, as authorized by Section
181.18 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, MAY 12, 2015 AT 11:00

The City Record
A.M. THE CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM 128,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 29, 2015 and May 6, 2015

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 494-15.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit at 5612 Harvard
Avenue, 1st floor and basement and
repealing Resolution No. 909-13,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit
to American Nightlife Magazine,
Inc., 5612 Harvard Avenue, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 0164864 by Resolution No. 909-13, adopted by the
Council on July 10, 2013; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit to
American Nightlife Magazine, Inc.,
5612 Harvard Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 0164864, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 909-13, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

Res. No. 495-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 1222
Prospect Avenue, 1st floor and basement and repealing Resolution No.
1018-14, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit to Club Center Lounge, Inc.,
DBA Xecutive Lounge, 1222 Prospect
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number 15721860001 by Resolution
No. 1018-14, adopted by the Council
on August 20, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

651

29
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
to Club Center Lounge, Inc., DBA Xecutive Lounge, 1222 Prospect Avenue,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44115,
Permanent
Number
15721860001, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1018-14, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

Res. No. 496-15.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 3474
West 25th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by of an the Division of Liquor
Control application for a New C2
Liquor Permit at West 25th Gas &
Go, Inc., 3474 West 25th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 9526240; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,

30
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at West 25th Gas & Go,
Inc., 3474 West 25th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
9526240; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

Res. No. 497-15.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 5741 Memphis Avenue and
repealing
Resolution
No.
116-15
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to Brahamani
Food, LLC, DBA Convenient Food
Mart, #3053, 5741 Memphis Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 0909290 by Resolution No.
116-15 adopted by the Council on
February 2, 2015; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to Brahamani Food,
LLC, DBA Convenient Food Mart,
#3053, 5741 Memphis Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
0909290, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 116-15,
containing such objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

The City Record
Ord. No. 194-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease certain warehouses located at
City Docks 30 and 32 to various companies for the purposes that may
include storage, movie staging, construction staging, and special events,
for a term of two years, with two oneyear options to renew, the first of
which shall require additional legislative authority.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain warehouses known as
City Docks 30 and 32, which are not
needed for the City’s public use; and
Whereas, various companies have
proposed to lease the property from
the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Port Control is
authorized to lease to various companies (“Lessees”), certain warehouses
known as City Docks 30 and 32, which
are not needed for the City’s public
use and is more fully depicted in the
map placed in File No. 194-15-A.
Section 2. That the term of the lease
or leases authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed two years, with two
one-year options to renew. The first of
the one-year option to renew may not
be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional
legislative authority is granted and
the first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second of
the one-year options to renew may be
exercised at the option of the Director
of Port Control, without the necessity
of obtaining additional authority of
this Council. The Director of Port Control may terminate any lease entered
into under this ordinance by giving a
thirty-day notice to the Lessees.
Section 3. That the spaces authorized by this ordinance shall be
leased at fair market value as determined by the Board of Control, exclusive of utilities.
Section 4. That the lease or leases
may authorize the Lessees to make
improvements to the leased premises
subject to the approval of appropriate
City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease or leases
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 6. That the Director of Port
Control, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease or
leases authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

652

May 6, 2015
Ord. No. 221-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of installing or constructing a storage structure for
equipment at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport; authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director to
employ one or more professional consultants necessary to design the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of installing or
constructing a storage structure for
equipment at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (the “Improvement”), for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts for the making of
the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to apply and pay
for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to design
the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from Fund Nos. 60
SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 112,
60 SF 114, 60 SF 115, 60 SF 116, 60 SF
117, 60 SF 119, 60 SF 121, 60 SF 122, 60
SF 126, 60 SF 128, 60 SF 130, 60 SF 141,

May 6, 2015
60 SF 160, and from the fund or funds
to which are credited any grant proceeds accepted for this purpose of federal passenger facility charges, if
authorized for this purpose, Request
No. RQS 3001, RL 2015-31.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

Ord. No. 225-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of parts necessary to repair and
maintain vehicles, trucks, and various types of equipment, including
labor and installation, if necessary,
for the Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke
Lakefront Airport, Department of
Port Control, for a term of two years,
with two one-year options to renew,
the first of which shall require additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a term of two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, of the necessary items of various types of parts necessary to repair
and maintain vehicles, trucks, and
various types of equipment, including
labor and installation, if necessary, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Divisions of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and
Burke Lakefront Airport, Department
of Port Control. The first of the oneyear options to renew may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to renew
is exercised, then the second of the
one-year options to renew may be
exercisable at the option of the Director of Port Control, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority
of this Council. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited

The City Record
any future bond proceeds, if authorized for this purpose, and shall be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of
Finance shall certify the amount of
any purchase under the contract, each
of which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery order
issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the Director of
Finance. (RQN 3001, RL 2015-12)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

Ord. No. 269-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary for painting and
paint removal on roadways, runways
and other paved surfaces, for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control, for a period of two years
with two one-year options to renew,
the first of which is exercisable
through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period up to
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary for
painting and paint removal on roadways, runways and other paved surfaces in the approximate amount as
purchased during the preceding term,
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. The first
of the one-year options to renew may
not be exercised without additional
legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted
and the first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second of
the one-year options to renew may be
exercisable at the option of the Director of Port Control, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority
of this Council. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each

653

31
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 3001, RL 2015-14)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

Ord. No. 351-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to
apply for and accept one or more
grants from the Northeast Ohio Area
Coordinating Agency through the
Ohio Department of Transportation
for the 2015 Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative; authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more agreements, including a multiparty agreement, professional services contracts, and other agreements
needed to implement this ordinance.
Whereas, the Ohio Department of
Transportation (“ODOT”) has provided funds to the Northeast Ohio Area
Coordinating Agency (“NOACA”) to
distribute to local government agencies for transportation projects; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
been awarded funds for a Multi-Modal
Facility Project, a Midway Cycle
Track and Protected Bike Facility
Project, and the East 79th Street Corridor Project; and
Whereas, a tri-party agreement is
necessary between ODOT, NOACA
and the City to implement the three
projects and to establish funding procedures; and
Whereas, in addition to the tri-party
agreement, the City will also enter
into agreements with various public
and private entities to implement the
three projects; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record

32
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to apply for
and accept one or more grants in an
amount not to exceed $285,000 from the
Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency (“NOACA”) to implement the
following projects under the 2015
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative: Multi-Modal Facility
Project, a Midway Cycle Track and
Protected Bike Facility Project, and
the East 79th Street Corridor Project
(the “2015 TLCI Projects”). That the
Director is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary
to implement the 2015 TLCI Projects.
Section 2. That a summary of the
2015 TLCI projects, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at a
public hearing on this legislation and
set forth in File No. 351-15-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide cash
matching funds in the sum up to
$34,500, is approved in all respects, and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of City
Planning, the Director of ODOT, and
NOACA are authorized to enter into a
tri-party agreement for implementation of the 2015 TCLI Projects, including but not limited to, the process for
approving deliverables, paying third
parties, disbursing funds, identifying
procedures, and other issues relating
to implementing this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts needed to implement this ordinance with various public and private entities, including, but
not limited to, the Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority, the
Greater Cleveland Partnership, Greyhound, St. Clair Superior Development
Corporation, Bike Cleveland, Historic
Gateway, and various community
development corporations. The contracts may include, among other
things, the obligation of the entities to
provide cash matching funds towards
one or more of the three 2015 TLCI Projects, if necessary.
Section 5. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to conduct transportation corridor study services.
As required by ODOT, the selection
of the consultants for the services
must comply with Sections 153.65
through 153.71 of the Ohio Revised
Code and Federal Regulations 23 CFR
172. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director
of Law, approved by the Director of
City Planning, and certified by the
Director of Finance.

Section 6. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement this ordinance.
Section 7. That the cost of contract
or contracts authorized shall be paid
from the fund or funds which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance, the City’s cash match
in the amount up to $34,500 which is
payable from Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20
SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546,
20 SF 554, 20 SF 563, and any funds
approved by the Director of Finance,
including future bond funds if issued
for this purpose.
and the cash matches received from
any of the public or private entities
identified in Section 3 of this ordinance. (RQS0110, RL 2015-44)
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

Ord. No. 399-15.
By Council Members Keane and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1588-09,
passed November 30, 2009, relating to
the public improvement of rehabilitating the terminal ticketing lobby at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1588-09, passed November 30,
2009, is amended to read as follows:
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF
106, 60 SF 112, 60 F 114, 60 SF 115, 60 SF
116, SF 126, 60 SF 128, 60 SF 130, 60 SF
141, 60 SF 160, passenger facility
charges and the fund and subfunds to
which are credited the proceeds of any
general airport revenue bonds and
grants, Request No. 175261.
Section 2. That existing Section 7 of
Ordinance No. 1588-09, passed November 30, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

May 6, 2015
Ord. No. 400-15.
By Council Members Keane and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 7 of Ordinance No. 158709, passed November 30, 2009, relating
to the public improvement of rehabilitating the exterior terminal building
facade at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and to supplement the
ordinance by adding new Section 6a.
authorizing the director to accept the
gift of funds from the Rental Car Consortium for the purpose of constructing canopies for the benefit of the traveling public.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 158709, passed November 30, 2009, is supplemented by adding new Section 6a.
to read as follows:
Section 6a. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to accept the gift
of funds from the Rental Car Consortium for the purpose of constructing
canopies for the benefit of the traveling public. That the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds; and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 2. That Sections 1 and 7 of
Ordinance No. 1587-09, passed November 30, 2009, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating
the exterior terminal building façade
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport,
including
constructing
canopies for use by the traveling public (the “Improvement”), for the
Department of Port Control, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis for
the Improvement.
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF
106, 60 SF 112, 60 F 114, 60 SF 115, 60 SF
116, 60 SF 126, 60 SsF 128, 60 SF 130, 60
SF 141, 60 SF 160, passenger facility
charges and the fund and subfunds to
which are credited the proceeds of any
general airport revenue bonds, gifts,
and grants, Request No. 175259.
Section 3. That existing Sections 1
and 7 of Ordinance No. 1587-09, passed
November 30, 2009, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

Ord. No. 403-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 52 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:

654

The City Record

May 6, 2015

33

Section 1. That Section 52 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, is amended to read as follows:
Section 52.
Housing Court Employees

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

Chief Housing
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court
Housing Court

Court Specialist .............................................
Administrative Assistant...........................
Administrator.................................................
ADR Specialist ..............................................
Chief Bailiff ...................................................
Chief Magistrate...........................................
Coordinator .....................................................
Court Reporter ..............................................
Deputy Bailiff ...............................................
Deputy Bailiff – Uniformed .....................
Deputy Bailiff Supervisor.........................
Deputy Bailiff/Finance Officer ..............
Deputy Bailiff/Judicial Clerk .................
Deputy Bailiff/Staff Attorney.................
Magistrate .......................................................
Magistrates’ Personal Bailiff ..................
Personal Bailiff ............................................
Project Coordinator .....................................
Receptionist....................................................
Scheduler .........................................................
Secretary..........................................................
Specialist .........................................................
Specialist - Mediation Coordinator ........
Student Aide ..................................................

Minimum
$52,158.83
23,063.94
64,815.84
42,178.00
38,884.00
71,667.00
23,064.00
23,715.99
22,173.84
22,173.84
42,815.88
38,544.06
21,993.75
29,585.00
42,178.32
23,063.94
63,969.00
31,050.00
23,064.00
23,063.94
20,815.92
34,000.00
29,585.48
10.70

Maximum
$92,427.06
58,939.38
103,878.54
90,045.81
94,348.04
125,383.66
56,182.76
62,343.65
58,272.37
58,272.37
74,798.61
75,078.85
54,490.42
74,922.62
98,102.62
54,755.16
94,737.11
72,208.42
37,603.68
54,755.16
40,891.00
73,955.59
63,002.69
11.56

Section 2. That existing Section 52 of Ordinance No. 323-15, passed March 30, 2015, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Human Resources, Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.
Passed April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

Ord. No. 416-15.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the lease by one or more contracts
of up to two high-reach extendable
turret vehicles, for the Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, for
a period of up to ten years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items: up to two
high-reach extendable turret vehicles
to be leased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis, for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control, for a period of up to ten years.
Section 2. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the leases authorized
by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
enter into the leases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.

Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 126, 60 SF 141, and
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds of any federal grants,
state grants, and local grants issued
for this purpose and passenger facility charges if authorized for this purpose, Request No. RQS 3001, RL 201546.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 27, 2015.
Effective April 28, 2015.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, May 4, 2015
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, J. Johnson. Authorized Absence: Mitchell,
Vice Chair; Conwell. Pro tempore:
Brancatelli.

655

2:00 p.m.
Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee & Finance
Committee: Cancelled.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane,
Mitchell, Pruitt. Authorized Absence:
Zone.
Tuesday, May 5, 2015
9:30 a.m.
Development, Planning and Sustainability
Committee:
Present:
Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, Dow,
Pruitt. Authorized Absence: Zone.
2:00 p.m.
Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Present: Cleveland,
Chair; J. Johnson, Kazy, Polensek,
Pruitt, Reed. Authorized Absence:
Zone, Vice Chair.
Wednesday, May 6, 2015
10:00 a.m.
Utilities Committee & Municipal
Services and Properties Committee
TOUR: Present in Utilities: Pruitt,
Chair; Brady, Vice Chair; Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Keane,
Mitchell,
Polensek. Present in MS&P: K. Johnson, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson, Kazy.
Authorized Absence: Reed.

The City Record

34

May 6, 2015

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Al’s Deli Project — job creation — Alphonso Mitchum — Economic Development
(Ward 09 CRF) (O 541-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crawford Building Project — Tonda Lanton — job creation — Economic Development
(Ward 09 CRF) (O 539-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Migration Arts Education Projects — providing art and mediation education — Building
Bridges Collaborative Inc., — Community Development (Ward 03CRF) (O 540-15) . . .
Omni Media Cleveland, Inc. — kiosk flexibility — amend Contract 55936 — City
Planning Commission (O 379-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643

Appropriations
Administrative expenses — appropriate CDBG and Federal Home funds (O 435-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Benwood Avenue, 13909 (Ward 2) – Chantell Mims-Pendland, owner — appeal adopted on
4/29/15 (Doc. A-24-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bernard Avenue, 10617 (Ward 11) – Donald Kuhar, owner — appeal resolved on 4/29/15
(Doc. A-36-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burger Avenue, 4521 (Ward 13) – John & Shannon Spalek, owner — appeal resolved on
4/29/15 (Doc. A-56-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dodge Court, 1629 (a.k.a. 1550 Chester Avenue) (Ward 3) – Brauhaus Cleveland LLC, owner —
appeal adopted on 4/29/15 (Doc. A-27-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 100th Street, 778 (Ward 9) – Levander Malone, owner — appeal adopted on
4/29/15 (Doc. A-26-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 128th Street, 3344 (Ward 4) – Wells Fargo Bank N.A., owner — appeal resolved
on 4/29/15 (Doc. A-39-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 65th Street, 2990 (Ward 5) – U.S. Bank, N.A. as Trustee, trustee — appeal resolved
on 4/29/15 (Doc. A-31-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Florian Avenue, 11321 (Ward 11) – Donna & Danielle Haldeman, owners — appeal adopted on
4/29/15 (Doc. A-30-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Manor Avenue, 9016 (Ward 6) – Mic-Ray Products, Inc., owner — appeal adopted on 4/29/15
(Doc. A-34-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Market Avenue, 2516 (Ward 3) – 2516 Corp., owner — no action on 4/29/15 (Doc. A-47-15) . . . . . .
Melba Avenue, 11413 (Ward 4) – Ronald Morris, owner — appeal postponed to 5/27/15
on 4/29/15 (Doc. A-35-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 4271 (Ward 17) – Kirby Ave. Property, Inc., owner — appeal adopted
on 4/29/15 (Doc. A-28-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 11508 (Ward 9) – Birlus Wordlaw, owner — appeal amended and adopted on
4/29/15 (Doc. A-29-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 112th Street, 3211 (Ward 11) – Carol Sakac, owner — appeal resolved on 4/29/15
(Doc. A-38-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 114th Street, 3250 (Ward 11) – Halloran West LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/29/15 (Doc. A-41-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 83rd Street, 1384 (Ward 16) – Robshir Property, owner — appeal adopted on 4/29/15
(Doc. A-33-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Weston Road, 18082 (Ward 10) – William Gardner, owner — appeal resolved on 4/29/15
(Doc. A-22-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 649
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 649
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 649
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 649
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 649
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 649
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 649
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 649
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Harvard Avenue, 7915 (Ward 12) — PPN 133-14-012 — The Most Reverend Richard
G. Lennon, Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Cleveland as trustee
for Holy Name Parish (BOC Res. 160-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street & Laisy Avenue (Ward 6) — PPN’s 127-13-001/002/047/051 — Valerie
J. McCall (BOC Res. 158-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street & Laisy Avenue (Ward 6) — PPN’s 127-13-001/002/047/051 — Valerie
J. McCall — rejected (BOC Res. 157-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 11445/11415 (Ward 9) — PPN’s 110-31-008/009 — Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District (BOC Res. 159-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 646
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 646

Board of Control — Finance Department
Human resources information system — amend BOC Res. 150-15 (BOC Res. 161-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 646
Network infrastructure, Microsoft Exchange and Active Directory and City-wide
applications — approve subcontractor — Contract #PS2013-043 per BOC Res. 610-12
(BOC Res. 152-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644

656

May 6, 2015

The City Record

35

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Harvard Avenue, 7915 (Ward 12) — PPN 133-14-012 — The Most Reverend Richard
G. Lennon, Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Cleveland as trustee
for Holy Name Parish (BOC Res. 160-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street & Laisy Avenue (Ward 6) — PPN’s 127-13-001/002/047/051 — Valerie
J. McCall (BOC Res. 158-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street & Laisy Avenue (Ward 6) — PPN’s 127-13-001/002/047/051 — Valerie
J. McCall — rejected (BOC Res. 157-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 11445/11415 (Ward 9) — PPN’s 110-31-008/009 — Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District (BOC Res. 159-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 646
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 646

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Centralized baggage inspection system — per Ord. 220-15 — all bids rejected (BOC Res. 155-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Geographic Information System (city-wide) program — renew licenses — Environmental
Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI) per C.O. Sec. 181.102 — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 153-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
Human resources information system — amend BOC Res. 150-15 — Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 161-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 646
Network infrastructure, Microsoft Exchange and Active Directory and City-wide
applications — approve subcontractor — Contract #PS2013-043 per BOC Res. 610-12 —
Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 152-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Centralized baggage inspection system — per Ord. 220-15 — all bids rejected — Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 155-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645
Highland Park Mausoleum Hazardous Conditions Abatement — per Ord. 537-12
to Precision Environmental Co. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 156-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645
Rosecliff Road Storm Sewer Replacement Project — per Ord. 991-14 to Terrace Construction
Co., Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 154-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Geographic Information System (city-wide) program — renew licenses — Environmental
Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI) per C.O. Sec. 181.102 (BOC Res. 153-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
Rosecliff Road Storm Sewer Replacement Project — per Ord. 991-14 to Terrace Construction
Co., Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 154-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Highland Park Mausoleum Hazardous Conditions Abatement — per Ord. 537-12
to Precision Environmental Co. (BOC Res. 156-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Rosecliff Road Storm Sewer Replacement Project — per Ord. 991-14 to Terrace Construction
Co., Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 154-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadview Road, 3322 (Ward 12) – Apolonio Lumaban, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 5/4/15 (Cal. 15-60) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue, 3401 (Ward 12) – George Sevastos, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
5/4/15 (Cal. 14-236). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 1862 (Ward 6) – East 123rd Street Properties Ltd., owner —
appeal heard on 5/4/15 (Cal. 14-238) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 65th Street, 3675 (Ward 12) – Bethel Church, owner — appeal affirmed to 10/27/15
on 5/4/15 (Cal. 14-142) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th Street, 1460 (Ward 3) – City of Cleveland, owner, and Hampton Inn, tenant —
appeal postponed to 9/14/15 on 5/26/15 (Cal. 15-3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kenilworth Avenue, 1112 (Ward 3) – Kathleen Crowther, owner — appeal heard on
5/4/15 (Cal. 15-66). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Magnolia Drive, 11125 (Ward 9) – Cleveland Music School Settlement, owner — appeal heard
on 5/4/15 (Cal. 15-64) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Murray Hill Road, 2187 (Ward 6) – Murray Hill Partners, LLC, owner, and Zac Ponsky,
tenant — appeal postponed to 6/1/15 on 5/4/15 (Cal. 15-62) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roxboro Avenue, 14608 (Ward 17) – Mark R. Bast, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
5/4/15 (Cal. 15-59). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Storer Avenue, 5405 (Ward 14) – Eric Poole, owner — appeal postponed to 8/3/15 on 5/4/15
(Cal. 15-67) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

657

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648

The City Record

36

May 6, 2015

West 18th Street, 2150 (Ward 3) – Carolyn Bentely, owner — appeal postponed to 6/8/15
on 5/4/15 (Cal. 15-63) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
West 29th Street, 1455 (Ward 3) – Ohio City Firehouse, LLC, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 5/4/15 (Cal. 15-35) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Grovewood Avenue, 16901 (Ward 8) – Ron Bolden, owner — appeal to be heard on
5/26/15 (Cal. 15-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Searsdale Avenue, 3106 (Ward 13) – Bash Homes LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/26/15
(Cal. 15-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner Road, 4533 (Ward 2) – Rightway Investments, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/26/15
(Cal. 15-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2491 (Ward 3) – Anthony & Michelle Sileo, owners — appeal to be heard
on 5/26/15 (Cal. 15-76) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 647
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 647
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 647
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 647

Bonds
Refunding Bonds — 2008 Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax Bonds — Police and Fire
Pension Fund — Finance Department — Safety Department (O 515-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626

Building and Housing Department
Cuyahoga County Property Demolition Fund-Round 1 Award — demolition of nuisance
structures — Grant (F 508-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

Burke Lakefront Airport
Vehicles, trucks, and various types of equipment — contracts — Port Control Department
(O 225-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653

Capital Projects
Buckeye-Shaker, Larchmere, and Woodland Hills — encroach into rights-of-way — sixteen
wooden posts and eighteen signs — Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corp. (Ward 04)
(O 521-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 634
East 105th St. (between Park Lane Villa and Euclid Ave.) — secondary and honorary
designation — Jamie Ireland Way — City Planning Commission (Ward 09) (O 530-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 637
East 116th St. (Miles Rd. to Union Ave.) — resurfacing — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 02) (O 516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 629
East 93rd St. (Union Ave. to Kinsman Rd.) — resurfacing — consent — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) (O 525-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 636
East Blvd. (between Euclid Ave. and Bellflower Rd.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Jamie Ireland Way — City Planning Commission (Ward 09) (O 450-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644-T
Eddy Rd., (St. Clair Ave. to Interstate 90) — resurfacing — consent — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 08) (O 517-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 631
Leonard Street N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(R 528-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639
North and South Marginal Roads (East 9th St. to East 55th St.) — consent and cause payment —
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 488-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
Pavement Management Program — Survey City Streets — collect and input data —
professional services (O 523-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635
Ride of Silence — May 20th — Bike Cleveland (Ward 03) (O 537-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640
St. Clair Ave. (Old River Rd., to West 9th St., and East 13 St., to East 55th St.) — public
improvement — consent — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 518-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 632
Warren Rd.(Munn Rd. to Interstate 90) — public improvement — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (Ward 17) (O 520-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633
West 150th St. (Industrial Parkway to Lorain Ave.) — public improvement — consent — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 519-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633

City Council
Supporting amending the U. S. Constitution to establish that corporations are not people
and money is not speech — Copy of petition — Ms. D. Karpinski (F 509-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Work Study Program — Amend Contract # 2014-108 — Saint Martin De Porres High School
(O 544-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 638

City of Cleveland Bids
2015-2018 Department of Finance Citywide Sales of Scrap Metal Materials (Re-bid) —
Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.18 — bid due May 27, 2015 (advertised 4/29/2015
and 5/6/2015) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 651
Capital Maintenance and Repair of City Facilities — Department of Public Works — Division
of Property Management — per C.O. Sec. 131.67 — bid due May 20, 2015 (advertised
4/29/2015 and 5/6/2015) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 651

658

May 6, 2015

The City Record

37

Criminal and Civil Filing System — Department of Finance — behalf of Cleveland Municipal
Court — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due May 15, 2015 (advertised 4/29/2015 and 5/6/2015) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
Rehabilitation of MLK, Jr. BLVD Bridge 50.28 (2-1) & 50.30 (3-1) Over Doan Brook (Re-bid) —
Office of Capital Projects — Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord.
730-13 — bid due May 15, 2015 (advertised 4/29/2015 and 5/6/2015) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650

City Planning Commission
Bellaire-Puritas Design Review District — Lorain Ave., (between W. 140th St. and W. 123rd
St.) (Ward 16) (O 532-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 638
East 105th St. (between Park Lane Villa and Euclid Ave.) — secondary and honorary
designation — Jamie Ireland Way — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 530-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 637
East Blvd. (between Euclid Ave. and Bellflower Rd.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Jamie Ireland Way — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09) (O 450-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644-T
Lake Shore Bank / CPL St. Clair Branch Bldg. — St. Clair Ave., 5404 and East 55th St.,
1368 — PPN 104-12-001 / 040 — designate as landmark — Landmarks Commission
(Ward 10) (O 531-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 638
Leonard Street N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03)
(R 528-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639
Lorain Ave., and West 150th St. (southeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 17) (O 249-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
(Northeast corner) of Madison Ave. and West 117th St. — changing setback lines from 5'
to a 0' — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 458-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
(Northeast corner) of Madison Ave., and West 117th St. — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 457-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
Omni Media Cleveland, Inc. — kiosk flexibility — amend Contract 55936 (O 379-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643
Terminate 1991 North Coast Harbor Community Development Plan 2 (O 527-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 637
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative, 2015 — Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency — Grant (O 351-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653

Clerk Of Council
Work Study Program — Amend Contract # 2014-108 — Saint Martin De Porres High School
(O 544-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 638

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Fire Station No. 10 — East 101st St., 1935 — deed of easement — Safety Department (O 526-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 637

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Amend Ord. 1588-09 — Ticketing lobby rehabilitation (O 399-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equipment storage structure — public improvement contract — professional services — Port
Control Department (O 221-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exterior building facade rehabilitation — amend Ord. 1587-09 (O 400-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease — contract — two high-reach extendable turret vehicles — Port Control Department
(O 416-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles, trucks, and various types of equipment — contracts — Port Control Department
(O 225-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 654
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 652
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 654
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Buckeye-Shaker, Larchmere, and Woodland Hills — encroach into rights-of-way — sixteen
wooden posts and eighteen signs — Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corp. — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 04) (O 521-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 634

Codified Ordinances
Rental of League Park Baseball Field and League Park Visitors Center; Fee — enact Section
131.37 — amend Section 131.35 (Ward 07) (O 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643

Communications
Cuyahoga County Property Demolition Fund-Round 1 Award — demolition of nuisance
structures — Grant — Building and Housing Department (F 508-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Supporting amending the U. S. Constitution to establish that corporations are not people
and money is not speech — Copy of petition — Ms. D. Karpinski (F 509-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

Community Development
Administrative expenses — appropriate CDBG and Federal Home funds (O 435-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643
Community Development programs — enter and amend contracts or memorandums of
understanding — expend funds — Cleveland Metroparks — Cleveland Metropolitan School
District — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (GCRTA) (O 436-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644

659

The City Record

38

May 6, 2015

Migration Arts Education Projects — providing art and mediation education — Building
Bridges Collaborative Inc., — agreement — Community Development (Ward 03CRF)
(O 540-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
Terminate 1991 North Coast Harbor Community Development Plan 2 (O 527-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 637

Community Development Block Grant Program
Administrative expenses — appropriate CDBG and Federal Home funds (O 435-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643
Community Development programs — enter and amend contracts or memorandums of
understanding — expend funds — Cleveland Metroparks — Cleveland Metropolitan School
District — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (GCRTA) (O 436-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644

Condolences
Battle, Pauline Parks (R 548-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Edwards, Dionne Tiffany (R 546-15) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evans, Reginald (R 547-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) (R 558-15)

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

625
625
625
625

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

626
626
626
626
625
626
626
626

Congratulations
Earnhart, Kayla (R 550-15). . . . . . . . . . . .
Eppich, Sister Barbara (R 556-15) . . . . . .
Harris, Rev. Allen (R 554-15) . . . . . . . . . .
Kayali, Lea (R 555-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sasso, Ruth Robertson (R 549-15) . . . . . .
Sinclair, Martin “ Marty “ (R 553-15) . . . .
Vaughn, Sr., Elder Robert E. (R 552-15) .
White, Meghan (R 551-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Contracts
Administration of Family and Medical Leave Act benefits for City employees — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 489-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Al’s Deli Project — job creation — Alphonso Mitchum — agreement — Economic Development
(Ward 09 CRF) (O 541-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division — lease -two high-reach extendable turret
vehicles — Port Control Department (O 416-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development programs — enter and amend contracts or memorandums of
understanding — expend funds — Cleveland Metroparks — Cleveland Metropolitan School
District — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (GCRTA) (O 436-15) . . . . . . . . . . .
Copiers, Group I, II, III — Meritech, Inc. — amend Contract No. RC 2010-135 —
Finance Department (O 490-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crawford Building Project — Tonda Lanton — job creation — agreement — Economic
Development (Ward 09 CRF) (O 539-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equipment storage structure — public improvement — professional services — Port Control
Department (O 221-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Migration Arts Education Projects — providing art and mediation education — Building
Bridges Collaborative Inc., — agreement — Community Development (Ward 03CRF)
(O 540-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North and South Marginal Roads (East 9th St. to East 55th St.) — consent and cause payment —
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 488-15) . . . . . . . . .
Omni Media Cleveland, Inc. — kiosk flexibility — amend Contract 55936 — City
Planning Commission (O 379-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . . . .
Paint and paint removal from roadways, runways and paved surfaces (O 269-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement Management Program — Survey City Streets — collect and input data —
professional services — Capital Projects Office (O 523-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tom Pallas Industries, Inc., — economic development assistance — Building located at West
110th St., 2040 — VPI (Ward 11) (O 522-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles, trucks, and various types of equipment — Port Control Department (O 225-15) . . . . . . . .
Work Study Program — Amend Contract # 2014-108 — Saint Martin De Porres High School
(O 544-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 652

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 638

Easements
Fire Station No. 10 — East 101st St., 1935 — Cleveland Clinic Foundation — Safety
Department (O 526-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 637

Economic Development Department
Al’s Deli Project — job creation — Alphonso Mitchum — agreement (Ward 09 CRF) (O 541-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
Crawford Building Project — Tonda Lanton — job creation — agreement (Ward 09 CRF)
(O 539-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
Tom Pallas Industries, Inc., — contract — economic development assistance — Building
located at West 110th St., 2040 — VPI (Ward 11) (O 522-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635

660

May 6, 2015

The City Record

39

Encroachments
Buckeye-Shaker, Larchmere, and Woodland Hills — rights-of-way — sixteen wooden posts
and eighteen signs — Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corp. — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 04) (O 521-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 634

Fees
Rental of League Park Baseball Field and League Park Visitors Center; Fee — enact Section
131.37 — amend Section 131.35 (Ward 07) (O 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643

Finance Department
Administration of Family and Medical Leave Act benefits for City employees — Human
Resources Department (O 489-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Copiers, Group I, II, III — Meritech, Inc. — amend Contract No. RC 2010-135 (O 490-15) . . . . . . . . . .
Refunding Bonds — 2008 Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax Bonds — Police and Fire
Pension Fund — Safety Department (O 515-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — amend Section 52 — amend Ord. 323-15 — Human Resources
Department (O 403-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — amend various sections — amend Ord. 323-15 — Human Resource
Department (O 491-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Workers’ compensation and actuarial services (O 524-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 654
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635

Fire Division
Refunding Bonds — 2008 Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax Bonds — Police and Fire
Pension Fund — Finance Department — Safety Department (O 515-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626

Gifts
Exterior building facade rehabilitation — amend Ord. 1587-09 — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport Division (O 400-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 654

Grants
Cuyahoga County Property Demolition Fund-Round 1 Award — demolition of nuisance
structures — Building and Housing Department (F 508-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative, 2015 — Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency — City Planning Commission (O 351-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653

House Bill
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639

Human Resources Department
Administration of Family and Medical Leave Act benefits for City employees — Finance
Department (O 489-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
Salary and wage schedules — amend Section 52 — amend Ord. 323-15 — Finance
Department (O 403-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 654
Salary and wage schedules — amend various sections — amend Ord. 323-15 — Finance
Department (O 491-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644

Landmark Commission
Lake Shore Bank / CPL St. Clair Branch Bldg. — St. Clair Ave., 5404 and East 55th St.,
1368 — PPN 104-12-001 / 040 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(Ward 10) (O 531-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 638

League Park Center
Rental of League Park Baseball Field and League Park Visitors Center; Fee — enact Section
131.37 — amend Section 131.35 (Ward 07) (O 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643

Leases
City Docks 30 and 32 — lease to various companies (O 194-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 652
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division — contract — two high-reach extendable
turret vehicles — Port Control Department (O 416-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655

Liquor Permits
Broadview Rd., 4852 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 13) (F 512-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
East 135th St., 3218 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 04) (F 510-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

661

The City Record

40

East 21st St., 1417-1423 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 07) (R 536-15) . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 11312 — new application (Ward 06) (F 514-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Ave., 5612 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 909-13
(Ward 12) (R 494-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Ave., 5741 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 116-15
(Ward 13) (R 497-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Ave., 7210 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 13) (F 511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 1222 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1018-14
(Ward 03) (R 495-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 24 — new application (Ward 03) (F 545-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 75 (Suite B-100) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 542-15) . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 10929 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 10) (R 534-15) . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 18506 — stock application (Ward 10) (F 513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6718 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 361-15 (Ward 07)
(R 543-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 7513 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 10) (R 533-15) . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 3700 (#E) — objection to issuance (Ward 07) (R 535-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 3474 — objection to issuance (Ward 14) (R 496-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

May 6, 2015
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 642
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 651
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 652
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

651
625
643
642
625

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

643
641
642
651

Loans
Tom Pallas Industries, Inc., — contract — economic development assistance — Building
located at West 110th St., 2040 — VPI (Ward 11) (O 522-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635

Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA)
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative, 2015 — Grant — City Planning (O 351-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
East 116th St. (Miles Rd. to Union Ave.) — resurfacing — consent — Capital Projects Office
(Ward 02) (O 516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd St. (Union Ave. to Kinsman Rd.) — resurfacing — consent — Capital Projects Office
(O 525-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eddy Rd., (St. Clair Ave. to Interstate 90) — resurfacing — consent — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 08) (O 517-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North and South Marginal Roads (East 9th St. to East 55th St.) — consent and cause payment —
Capital Projects Office (O 488-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave. (Old River Rd., to West 9th St., and East 13 St., to East 55th St.) — public
improvement — consent — Capital Projects Office (O 518-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative, 2015 — Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency — Grant — City Planning Commission (O 351-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warren Rd.(Munn Rd. to Interstate 90) — public improvement — consent — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 17) (O 520-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 150th St. (Industrial Parkway to Lorain Ave.) — public improvement — consent —
Capital Projects Office (O 519-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 629
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 636
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 631
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 632
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633

Permits
Buckeye-Shaker, Larchmere, and Woodland Hills — encroach into rights-of-way — sixteen
wooden posts and eighteen signs — Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corp. —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 04) (O 521-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 634
Ride of Silence — May 20th — Bike Cleveland (Ward 03) (O 537-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640

Police Division
Refunding Bonds — 2008 Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax Bonds — Police and Fire
Pension Fund — Finance Department — Safety Department (O 515-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626

Port Control Department
Amend Ord. 1588-09 — Ticketing lobby rehabilitation — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport Division (O 399-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City Docks 30 and 32 — lease to various companies (O 194-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division — lease — contract — two high-reach
extendable turret vehicles (O 416-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equipment storage structure — public improvement contract — professional services (O 221-15) .
Exterior building facade rehabilitation — amend Ord. 1587-09 — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport Division (O 400-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paint and paint removal from roadways, runways and paved surfaces (O 269-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles, trucks, and various types of equipment — contracts (O 225-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

662

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 654
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 652
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 652
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 654
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653

May 6, 2015

The City Record

41

Professional Services
Administration of Family and Medical Leave Act benefits for City employees — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 489-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equipment storage structure — public improvement contract — Port Control Department
(O 221-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavement Management Program — Survey City Streets — collect and input data — Capital
Projects Office (O 523-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative, 2015 — Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency — Grant — City Planning Commission (O 351-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Workers’ compensation and actuarial services (O 524-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 652
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635

Public Hearing (Notices)
Lorain Ave., and West 150th St. (southeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 17) (O 249-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
(Northeast corner) of Madison Ave. and West 117th St. — changing setback lines from 5'
to a 0' — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 458-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
(Northeast corner) of Madison Ave., and West 117th St. — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 457-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650

Public Improvements
Amend Ord. 1588-09 — Ticketing lobby rehabilitation — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport Division (O 399-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th St. (Miles Rd. to Union Ave.) — resurfacing — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 02) (O 516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd St. (Union Ave. to Kinsman Rd.) — resurfacing — consent — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 525-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eddy Rd., (St. Clair Ave. to Interstate 90) — resurfacing — consent — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 08) (O 517-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equipment storage structure — contract — professional services — Port Control Department
(O 221-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exterior building facade rehabilitation — amend Ord. 1587-09 — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport Division (O 400-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . .
St. Clair Ave. (Old River Rd., to West 9th St., and East 13 St., to East 55th St.) —
consent — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office
(O 518-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warren Rd.(Munn Rd. to Interstate 90) — consent — Ohio Department of Transportation
(ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (Ward 17) (O 520-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 150th St. (Industrial Parkway to Lorain Ave.) — consent — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 519-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 654
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 629
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 636
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 631
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 652
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 654
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 632
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633

Races
Ride of Silence — May 20th — Bike Cleveland (Ward 03) (O 537-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640

Recognition
Cinco de Mayo — 2015 (R 557-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626

Resolution Of Support
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639

Safety Department
Fire Station No. 10 — East 101st St., 1935 — deed of easement — Cleveland Clinic Foundation —
Safety Department (O 526-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 637
Refunding Bonds — 2008 Subordinate Lien Unrestricted Income Tax Bonds — Police and Fire
Pension Fund — Finance Department — Safety Department (O 515-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626

Salaries
Salary and wage schedules — amend Section 52 — amend Ord. 323-15 — Finance Department —
Human Resources Department (O 403-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 654
Salary and wage schedules — amend various sections — amend Ord. 323-15 — Finance
Department — Human Resource Department (O 491-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644

663

The City Record

42

May 6, 2015

Senate Bills
Opposing House Bill 180 and Senate Bill 152 to prohibit residency requirements (R 529-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639

Street Vacation
Leonard Street N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (R 528-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639

Streets — Name
East 105th St. (between Park Lane Villa and Euclid Ave.) — secondary and honorary
designation — Jamie Ireland Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 09) (O 530-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 637
East Blvd. (between Euclid Ave. and Bellflower Rd.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Jamie Ireland Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 09)
(O 450-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644-T

Tabled Legislation
East Blvd. (between Euclid Ave. and Bellflower Rd.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Jamie Ireland Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 09)
(O 450-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644-T

Ward 01
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

Ward 02
East 116th St. (Miles Rd. to Union Ave.) — resurfacing — consent —
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 516-15)
Edwards, Dionne Tiffany — Condolence (R 546-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evans, Reginald — Condolence (R 547-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . .

Ohio Department
................
................
................
................

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

629
625
625
625

Ward 03
Harris, Rev. Allen — Congratulations (R 554-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kayali, Lea — Congratulations (R 555-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leonard Street N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (R 528-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Migration Arts Education Projects — providing art and mediation education — Building
Bridges Collaborative Inc., — agreement — Community Development (Ward 03 CRF)
(O 540-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 1222 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1018-14 —
liquor permit (R 495-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 24 — new application — liquor permit (F 545-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 75 (Suite B-100) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 542-15) . .
Ride of Silence — May 20th — Bike Cleveland (O 537-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave. (Old River Rd., to West 9th St., and East 13 St., to East 55th St.) — public
improvement — consent — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital
Projects Office (O 518-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

651
625
643
640

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 632

Ward 04
Buckeye-Shaker, Larchmere, and Woodland Hills — encroach into rights-of-way — sixteen
wooden posts and eighteen signs — Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corp. — Capital
Projects Office (O 521-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 135th St., 3218 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 510-15) . . . . . . . . . . .
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vaughn, Sr., Elder Robert E. — Congratulations (R 552-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

634
625
625
626

Ward 05
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

Ward 06
Battle, Pauline Parks — Condolence (R 548-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
East 93rd St. (Union Ave. to Kinsman Rd.) — resurfacing — consent — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 525-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 636

664

May 6, 2015

The City Record

43

Euclid Ave., 11312 — new application — liquor permit (F 514-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

Ward 07
East 21st St., 1417-1423 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 536-15) . . . . . .
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rental of League Park Baseball Field and League Park Visitors Center; Fee — enact Section
131.37 — amend Section 131.35 (O 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave. (Old River Rd., to West 9th St., and East 13 St., to East 55th St.) — public
improvement — consent — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital
Projects Office (O 518-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6718 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 361-15 — liquor permit
(R 543-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 3700 (#E) — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 535-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 642
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 632
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 642

Ward 08
Eddy Rd., (St. Clair Ave. to Interstate 90) — resurfacing — consent — Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 517-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 631
Eppich, Sister Barbara — Congratulations (R 556-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

Ward 09
Al’s Deli Project — job creation — Alphonso Mitchum — agreement — Economic Development
(Ward 09 CRF) (O 541-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
Crawford Building Project — Tonda Lanton — job creation — agreement — Economic
Development (Ward 09 CRF) (O 539-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 641
East Blvd. (between Euclid Ave. and Bellflower Rd.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Jamie Ireland Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 09)
(O 450-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 644-T
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625

Ward 10
Lake Shore Bank / CPL St. Clair Branch Bldg. — St. Clair Ave., 5404 and East 55th St.,
1368 — PPN 104-12-001 / 040 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
Landmarks Commission (O 531-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 10929 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 534-15) . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 18506 — stock application — liquor permit (F 513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 7513 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 533-15) . .

—
...
...
...
...
...

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

638
625
642
625
641

Ward 11
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640
Tom Pallas Industries, Inc., — contract — economic development assistance — Building
located at West 110th St., 2040 — VPI (O 522-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635

Ward 12
Harvard Ave., 5612 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal
liquor permit (R 494-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . .
Sinclair, Martin “ Marty “ — Congratulations (R 553-15). . . . . . . . . . . . .

— repeal Res. 909-13 —
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 651
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626

Ward 13
Broadview Rd.,., 4852 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 512-15) . . . . .
Earnhart, Kayla — Congratulations (R 550-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Ave., 5741 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 116-15 —
liquor permit (R 497-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Ave., 7210 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 511-15). . . . . . .
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sasso, Ruth Robertson — Congratulations (R 549-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
White, Meghan — Congratulations (R 551-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

652
625
625
625
626

Ward 14
Cinco de Mayo — 2015 — Recognition (R 557-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
West 25th St., 3474 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 496-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 651

665

The City Record

44

May 6, 2015

Ward 15
Cinco de Mayo — 2015 — Recognition (R 557-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Northeast corner) of Madison Ave. and West 117th St. — changing setback lines from 5'
to a 0' — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 458-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Northeast corner) of Madison Ave., and West 117th St. — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 457-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland 2015 Marathon, Half Marathon 10K and 5K — May 17 (Ward(s) 03, 11, 15)
(O 538-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640

Ward 16
Bellaire-Puritas Design Review District — Lorain Ave., (between W. 140th St. and W. 123rd
St.) — City Planning Commission (O 532-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 638
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
West 150th St. (Industrial Parkway to Lorain Ave.) — public improvement — consent — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 519-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633

Ward 17
Perry, Jr., Bishop F. E. (Floyd Eugene) — Condolence (R 558-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warren Rd.(Munn Rd. to Interstate 90) — public improvement — consent — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 520-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 150th St. (Industrial Parkway to Lorain Ave.) — public improvement — consent — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 519-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., and West 150th St. (southeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (O 249-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650

Zoning
Bellaire-Puritas Design Review District — Lorain Ave., (between W. 140th St. and W. 123rd
St.) — City Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 532-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., and West 150th St. (southeast corner) — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 17) (O 249-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Northeast corner) of Madison Ave. and West 117th St. — changing setback lines from 5'
to a 0' — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 458-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Northeast corner) of Madison Ave., and West 117th St. — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 457-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

666

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 638
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650

