The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the First, Two Thousand and Fifteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

11

Board of Control

12

Civil Service

13

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

24

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
25

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

25

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

25

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

25

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

26

Committee Meetings

40

Index

40

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Sharon Dumas, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Toinette Parrilla, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Myron Benett, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 14C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge James H. Hewitt, III – Courtroom 12A
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12B
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2015

Vol. 102

No. 5286

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2015
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2015-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson (CHAIR), Dow (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Kazy, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
(VICEPruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Kazy, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Kazy, Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Kazy, Reed.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Dow (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Kelley, Mitchell.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Mitchell, Kelley, Keane,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Polensek, Pruitt.

Kelley
Keane,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 30, 2015
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:01 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, TJ Dow, Jeffrey D.
Johnson, Brian Kazy, Kevin J. Kelley, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J.
Keane, Mamie J. Mitchell, Michael
D. Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack
Reed, and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Edward W.
Rybka, Chief of Education Monyka
S. Price, Chief of Sustainability Jenita
McGowan,
and
Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Spronz, Parrilla,
McGrath, Cox, O’Leary, Southerington, Nichols, Griffin, Collier, Fumich,
Ambroz and Burrows.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Kazy, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member J. Johnson.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 349-15.
Department of Finance
Division of Treasury
Statement of Cash Management
and Investment Policy
Effective March 27, 2015

383

Purpose
The purpose of this document is
to identify the policy that will govern the investment activities of the
Treasurer’s Office of the City of
Cleveland.
This policy has been
adopted by, and, if necessary, will
be revised on an annual basis by,
the Director of Finance.
This policy is designed to ensure
prudent
management
of
public
funds, conformance to Chapter 178
of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, availability of
operating and capital funds when
needed, and an investment return
competitive with comparable funds
and financial market indices.
All participants in the investment
process shall act responsibly as custodians of the public trust. Investment officials shall recognize that
the investment portfolio is subject
to public review and evaluation.
The
overall
program
shall
be
designed
and
managed
with
a
degree of professionalism that is
worthy of the public trust.
Scope of the Investment Policy
This policy applies to the investment of all moneys of the City of
Cleveland under the custody and/or
control of the Division of Treasury.
Any practice not clearly authorized
under this policy is prohibited. The
guidance set forth herein is to be
strictly followed by all those responsible for any aspect of the management or administration of these
funds.
The City’s investments shall be
segregated into distinct portfolios,
including portfolios for the General
Fund, and the Divisions of Water,
Airport, Utilities, Cemeteries, Safety,
and Railroads. Total Average Portfolio, as defined in this policy, shall
mean the average of the month-end
market values for the prior twelve
(12) month period of an individual
portfolio.
The City of Cleveland bond proceeds shall be invested in the eligible securities as established by the
applicable bond indentures.
Investment Objectives
All Portfolios shall be managed to
accomplish the following hierarchy
of objectives:
Preservation of Principal – The
single most important objective of
the City of Cleveland investment
program is the preservation of principal of those funds within the Portfolio.
Maintenance of Liquidity – The
Portfolio shall be managed in such
a manner that assures that funds
are available as needed to meet
those immediate and/or future operating requirements of the City of
Cleveland.

The City Record

4
Maximize Return – The Portfolio
shall be managed in such a fashion
as to attain a market-average rate
of return throughout budgetary and
economic cycles, within the context
and parameters set forth by objectives 1 and 2 above.
Delegation of Authority
The Treasurer is responsible for
the prudent investment of the City
of Cleveland Treasury and shall
oversee the establishment of investment procedures consistent with this
Such
procedures
shall
policy.
include
explicit
delegation
of
authority to persons responsible for
investment transactions. No person
may engage in an investment transaction except as provided under the
terms of this policy and the procedures established by the Treasurer.
The Treasurer shall be responsible
for all trades undertaken, and shall
establish a system of controls to
regulate the activities of subordinate officials and shall exercise control over that staff.
Investment
staff shall be bonded in amounts
appropriate to levels of responsibility and portfolio characteristics.
The City’s Internal Auditor will
review the investment program to
ensure compliance with this policy.
Standard of Prudence
The standard of prudence to be
applied to the investment of the City
of Cleveland shall be the industry
standard “Prudent Investor Rule”,
which states:
“Investments shall be made with
judgment and care, under circumstances then prevailing which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not
for speculation, but for investment,
considering the probable safety of
their capital as well as the probable
income to be derived.”
Treasury staff acting in accordance with this policy or any other
written procedures pertaining to the
administration and management of
the City of Cleveland and who exercise the proper due diligence shall
be relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or market price changes, provided that these deviations are
reported immediately to the Treasurer and that appropriate action is
taken to control and prevent any
further adverse developments.
Ethics and Conflict of Interest
Employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution
and management of the investment
program, or that could impair their
ability to make impartial decisions.
Further, no employee involved in
the investment process shall use the
authority to influence of office or
employment to secure anything of
value or the promise or offer of anything of value that would create an
improper influence upon the public
official or employee with respect to
that person’s duties.
Employees and investment officials shall comply fully with the
reporting and disclosure requirements of Chapter 102 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Authorized Instruments
The Treasurer is authorized
invest the funds of the City

to
of

April 1, 2015

Cleveland
in
instruments
as
described in section 178.12 of the
Codified Ordinances as summarized
and restricted below:
A.
U.S.
Treasury
Obligations.
United States Treasury bills, notes,
or any other obligation or security
issued by the United States Treasury or any other obligation guaranteed as to principal and interest
by the United States.
B. Federal Agency Obligations.
Bonds, notes, debentures, or other
obligations or securities issued by
any federal government agency or
instrumentality.
C. State and Municipal Bonds and
Notes. Bonds and notes of the State
of Ohio, and any municipal corporation, village, county, township, or
other political subdivision of Ohio
for which the full faith and credit
of the subdivision is pledged, so
long as such subdivision has not
defaulted in the payment of principal or interest on its bonds or notes
within the last ten (10) years.
D. State Pool. State of Ohio Local
Agency
Investment
Pool
(STAR
Ohio)
authorized
under
section
135.45 of the Ohio Revised Code.
E. Bank Deposits.
Time certificates of deposit (not to exceed one
[1] year) or savings or deposit
accounts in an eligible institution as
defined in Chapter 178 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland. Collateralization is required on
all deposits of City funds as stated
in Chapter 178 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland.
F. U.S. Government money market
mutual funds. Issued by open ended
investment
companies
registered
with the SEC, with an average
maturity of one hundred twenty
(120) days or less, which have the
objective of maintaining a constant
net asset value per share, and which
invest exclusively in U.S. Treasury
Obligations, Federal Agency Obligations, and repurchase agreements
secured by such obligations.
G. Repurchase Agreements.
Specific agreements shall not exceed a
term of one (1) year with any eligible depository or designated securities
broker/dealer
which
has
entered into a master repurchase
agreement
pursuant
to
Codified
Ordinance Section 178.12, division
(c), under the terms of which agreement the City Treasurer purchases
for the City, and such eligible depository or securities broker/dealer
agrees
to
unconditionally
repurchase, any of the securities listed in
Section
178.12,
divisions
(b)(1),
(b)(2), or (b)(3), of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland.
Diversification
Each Portfolio shall be structured
to diversify investments to reduce
the risk of loss resulting from overconcentration of assets in a specific
maturity, a specific issuer or a specific type of security.
The maximum percentage of the Total Average Portfolio permitted in each security is as follows:
A. U.S. Treasury 100%
B. Federal Agency
(Fixed Rate)
100%
C. Federal Agency
(Callable)
55%
D. Certificates of
25%
Deposit
E. Repurchase
Agreements
25%

384

maximum
maximum
maximum
maximum
maximum

F. State Bonds
and Notes
10%
G. Municipal Bonds
and Notes
10%
H. STAR Ohio
75%
I. Money Market
Mutual Funds
75%

maximum
maximum
maximum
maximum

Each Portfolio will be further
diversified to limit the exposure to
any one issuer.
No more than 2%
of the Total Average Portfolio will
be invested in the securities of any
single issuer with the following
exceptions:
U.S. Government
100% maximum
Obligations
Money Market
Mutual Funds
10% maximum
Repurchase Agreements
Counterparties
5% maximum
Maximum Maturity
Maintenance of adequate liquidity
to meet the cash flow needs of the
City is essential. Accordingly, each
Portfolio will be structured in a
manner that ensures sufficient cash
is available to meet anticipated liquidity needs.
Selection of investment maturities must be consistent
with the cash requirements in order
to avoid the forced sale of securities
prior to maturity.
Assets will be invested in permitted investments with a stated maturity of no more than five (5) years
from the date of purchase unless the
security is matched to a specific
obligation or debt of the City.
To
control the volatility of the assets,
the Treasurer of the City will determine a duration target, not to
exceed three (3) years.
Notwithstanding these limitations,
in no case will the assets in any
Portfolio be invested in securities
with
a
term
to
maturity
that
exceeds the expected disbursement
date of those funds.
Prohibited
Investments
and
Investment Practices
The Treasurer is expressly prohibited from the following investments and investment practices.
This is not an exclusive list.
1. Short sales (selling a specific
security before it has been legally
purchased);
2. Investment in complex derivatives such as range notes, dual
index notes, inverse floating rate
notes and deleveraged notes, or
notes linked to lagging indices or to
long-term indices;
3. Collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) and real estate mortgage
investment
conduits
(REMICs);
4. Investing in any security not
specifically permitted by this Policy.
Monitoring
and
Adjusting
the
Portfolio
Those responsible for the day-today management of the Portfolios
will routinely monitor the contents
of each Portfolio, the available markets and the relative values of competing instruments, and will adjust
each Portfolio as necessary to meet
the
investment
objectives
listed
above. It is recognized and understood
that
this
non-speculative
management
of
Portfolio
active
holdings may cause a loss on the

April 1, 2015
sale of an owned investment. It is
the policy of the City of Cleveland
to charge any such loss against the
interest income account during the
month in which the loss was realized.
The Division of Financial Reporting & Control, on a monthly basis,
allocates
the
net
income/losses
earned
on
investments
of
pooled/commingled funds. The earnings are allocated based on each
participating fund’s cash balance in
proportion to total pooled/commingled cash.
Internal Controls
The City Treasurer is responsible
for monitoring a system of internal
controls governing the administration and management of the Portfolio which include a review of all
investment activity, trade reconciliation, and targeting cash balances.
Such controls are designed to prevent and control losses of the City
funds arising from fraud, employee
error, misrepresentation by third
parties, unanticipated changes in
financial
markets,
or
imprudent
actions by any personnel. The internal controls address: control of collusion, separation of duties, separating transaction authority from
accounting and record keeping, custodial safekeeping, clear delegation
of authority, written confirmation of
telephone transactions, minimizing
the number of authorized investments officials and documentation
of investment transactions.
Eligible Banks and Broker/Dealers
The Director of Finance will
establish and the Treasurer will
maintain a list of eligible brokers,
dealers, and banks with which
investment
transactions
can
be
made, as described in Section 178.11
of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland.
Qualified firms
will be limited to “primary” dealers
and other dealers that qualify under
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital rule) that are registered with
the Ohio Department of Commerce
to do business in the State of Ohio.
All financial institutions and broker
dealers must provide the following
information, on an annual basis:
1. Sworn statement pledging to
adhere to “Capital Adequacy Standards”
2. Annual financial statements for
the most recent year showing the
amount of liquid capital
3. A written statement from a certified public accountant certifying
no weakness in the internal systems
of controls of the dealer or broker
were found
4. A completed “Broker/Dealer
Request for Information” and all
documentation required by Section
178.12 of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland.
Preference will be given to banks
and broker/dealers who are headquartered or maintain a presence in
the City of Cleveland.
Financial institutions and broker/dealers will be required to comply with this policy and to pledge
to offer for sale only appropriate
securities.

The City Record
Competitive Selection of Investment Instruments
It will be the policy of the Treasurer to transact all security purchases/sales only with approved
financial institutions through a competitive process.
The City shall
accept the offer which (a) has the
highest rate of return within the
maturity required; and (b) optimizes
the investment objective of the overall portfolio. When selling a security, the Treasurer will select the
bid that generates the highest sale
price.
Primary
fixed
price
Federal
Agency offerings may be purchased
from
the
list
of
qualified
broker/dealers without competitive
solicitation.
In making investment decisions,
all other things being equal and
subject to compliance with any
applicable Internal Revenue Code
requirements
for
bond
proceeds,
investment
in
corporations
and
financial institutions doing business
in the City of Cleveland will be
given preference over other investment options.
Safekeeping and Custody
All
investment
securities
purchased by the Treasurer or held as
collateral on deposits or investments
shall be held in third-party safekeeping at the Federal Reserve
Bank or at a secured and insured
depository as required by Chapter
178 of the City of Cleveland Codified
Ordinance and Section 113.05 of the
Ohio Revised Code.
All securities in the Portfolio
shall be held in the name of the
Treasurer of the City of Cleveland
and will be free and clear of any
lien. Further, all investment transactions will be conducted on a delivery-vs.-payment basis.
The depository
shall
issue
a
safekeeping
receipt to the Treasurer listing the
specific instrument, rate, maturity
and other pertinent information.
Appropriate
Treasury
officials
and representatives of the depository responsible for, or in any manner
involved with, the safekeeping and
custody process of the City of Cleveland shall be bonded in such a fashion as to protect the City from losses from malfeasance and misfeasance.

Performance Standards
The investment portfolios shall be
designed and managed with the
objective of obtaining a market rate
of return throughout budgetary and
economic cycles, commensurate with
the investment risk constraints and
cash flows needs of the City.
Reporting
The City Treasury shall maintain
accurate,
complete,
and
timely
records of all investment activities.
Each business day, the Treasurer
shall provide the Commissioner of
Accounts and the City Controller a
sworn statement (Daily Treasurer’s
Report) showing the total amount
deposited in and withdrawn from
each depository from the preceding
business day.
Within fifteen (15)
business days of the end of the
month, the City Treasurer shall submit an investment report to the
Director of Finance. This report

385

5
shall include: (i.) a listing of the
existing
portfolios
in
terms
of
investment securities, book value,
maturity date, return, market value,
and other features deemed relevant,
(ii.) a listing of all transactions executed during the month.
The City
Treasurer will also prepare annual
reports in sufficient detail to provide full disclosure of all investment
activities to the Director of Finance.
Conflict of Law
In the event that any portion of
this policy is in conflict with any
City, State, or Federal law, that law
will prevail.
Investment Policy Effective Date
This policy is adopted this 27th
day of March 2015 and shall remain
in effect until rescinded or amended
by the Director of Finance.
__________________________________
James Hartley
Acting Director of Finance
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 350-15
RE: #2657505. Transfer of Ownership
Application,
D5
D6.
FDL
Marine, Inc., 2800 Whiskey Island
(Ward 15). Received.
File No. 362-15
RE: #0700005. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5 D6. Birdland
Waffle-Cleveland,
LLC,
1144-46
Prospect
Avenue
(Ward
3).
Received.
File No. 363-15
RE: #0006340005. Stock Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6. AP Lounge,
LLC, 2063 East 4th Street (Ward 3).
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 365-15—Eva Mae Davis.
Res. No. 366-15—Veria Lee (Tyler)
Brown.
Res. No. 367-15—Earl W. Williams,
Sr.
Res.
No.
368-15—Rev.
Melvin
Lamar Kenniebrew.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res.
No.
369-15—Chief
John
Pavelich, University Circle
Police
Department.
Res. No. 370-15—Villa Angela–St.
Joseph High School Boys Varsity
Basketball Team.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 371-15—Top Ladies of Distinction,
Inc.,
Greater
Cleveland
Chapter, Area V.
Res. No. 372-15—Council on American-Islamic Relations, 13th Annual
Civil Rights Banquet.

The City Record

6
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 351-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to
apply for and accept one or more
grants from the Northeast Ohio Area
Coordinating Agency through the
Ohio Department of Transportation
for the 2015 Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative; authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more agreements, including a multiparty agreement, professional services contracts, and other agreements
needed to implement this ordinance.
Whereas, the Ohio Department of
Transportation (“ODOT”) has provided funds to the Northeast Ohio Area
Coordinating Agency (“NOACA”) to
distribute to local government agencies for transportation projects; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
been awarded funds for a Multi-Modal
Facility Project, a Midway Cycle
Track and Protected Bike Facility
Project, and the East 79th Street Corridor Project; and
Whereas, a tri-party agreement is
necessary between ODOT, NOACA
and the City to implement the three
projects and to establish funding procedures; and
Whereas, in addition to the tri-party
agreement, the City will also enter
into agreements with various public
and private entities to implement the
three projects; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to apply for
and accept one or more grants in an
amount not to exceed $285,000 from
the Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency (“NOACA”) to implement the
following projects under the 2015
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative: Multi-Modal Facility
Project, a Midway Cycle Track and
Protected Bike Facility Project, and
the East 79th Street Corridor Project
(the “2015 TLCI Projects”). That the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to implement the 2015 TLCI
Projects.
Section 2. That a summary of the
2015 TLCI projects, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
a public hearing on this legislation
and set forth in File No. 351-15-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds in the sum
up to $34,500, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of City
Planning, the Director of ODOT, and
NOACA are authorized to enter into a
tri-party agreement for implementation of the 2015 TCLI Projects, including but not limited to, the process for
approving deliverables, paying third
parties, disbursing funds, identifying
procedures, and other issues relating
to implementing this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts needed to imple-

ment this ordinance with various public and private entities, including, but
not limited to, the Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority, the
Greater Cleveland Partnership, Greyhound, St. Clair Superior Development Corporation, Bike Cleveland,
Historic Gateway, and various community development corporations.
The contracts may include, among
other things, the obligation of the
entities to provide cash matching
funds towards one or more of the
three 2015 TLCI Projects, if necessary.
Section 5. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to conduct transportation corridor study
services.
As required by ODOT, the selection
of the consultants for the services
must comply with Sections 153.65
through 153.71 of the Ohio Revised
Code and Federal Regulations 23
CFR 172. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of City Planning, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That the Director of City
Planning is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement this ordinance.
Section 7. That the cost of contract
or contracts authorized shall be paid
from the fund or funds which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance, the City’s cash
match in the amount up to $34,500
which is payable from Fund No. xxx,
and the cash matches received from
any of the public or private entities
identified in Section 3 of this ordinance. (RQS0110, RL 2015-44)
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 352-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue permits to various private utilities and private entities to encroach
into the public right-of-way of Public
Square by installing, relocating,
using, and maintaining various utility facilities, lines, conduits, and other
means of transmission and provision
of the utility service, or various structures and streetscape elements, previously approved by the City, within
and part of, appurtenant to, or associated with the Public Square Renovation Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

386

April 1, 2015
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue permits, revocable at the will of Council,
to various private utilities and private entities, to encroach into the public right-of-way of, above or beneath
Public Square by installing, relocating, using, and maintaining various
utility facilities, lines, conduits, and
other means of transmission and provision of the utility service, or various
structures and streetscape elements,
previously approved by the City, within and part of, appurtenant to, or associated with the Public Square Renovation Project, at locations to be
reviewed and approved by the Director of Capital Projects.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 353-15.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing, rehabilitating, renovating, replacing or otherwise improving the Dwayne Browder Football Field at the Lonnie
Burten Recreation Center, including
but not limited to site improvements
and appurtenances; authorizing the
Director of Public Works or Capital
Projects, as appropriate, to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the improvement; and authorizing
applying for and accepting gifts and
grants from various entities for this
project.
Whereas, the unique design, time,
budgetary, or other material elements
of this project can benefit from the
special care, coordination, and expeditiousness possible by performance
of both the professional design services and the construction under a
design-build approach contract with a
single entity; and

April 1, 2015
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing
or otherwise improving the Dwayne
Browder Football Field at the Lonnie
Burten Recreation Center, including
but not limited to site improvements
and appurtenances (the “Improvement”), for the Department of Public
Works, by one or more design-build or
engineer-procure-construct contracts
duly let to the person, firm, or corporation or combination of them submitting the best proposal, taking into
consideration the engineering and
design, the construction method, the
proposed design and construction
costs, the total life-cycle costs, the
qualifications of the proposed design
professional and construction firm,
and the other objectives of the
Improvement.
The selection of the person, firm, or
corporation to design and construct
the Improvement shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Works or Capital Projects, as appropriate from a list
of qualified and available persons,
firms, or corporations, as may be
determined by the Director of Public
Works or Capital Projects, as appropriate, after making a full and complete canvass for the purpose of compiling the list. The Board of Control
shall fix the total compensation to be
paid for all design and construction
and procurement necessary for the
Improvement. The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director
of Public Works or Capital Projects,
as appropriate, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
the Director of Public Works or Capital Projects, as appropriate, is authorized to execute all documents and
pay all fees necessary to acquire any
real estate interests needed for the
Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works or Capital Projects, as
appropriate, is authorized to apply
and pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Works or Capital Projects, as
appropriate is authorized to make one
or more written standard purchase
contracts and written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the period of requirements
to be determined by the director, for
the necessary items of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services necessary to construct the Improvement,
including labor and materials if necessary, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department of
Public Works or Capital Projects, as
appropriate. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be

The City Record
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Works or Capital Projects, as
appropriate is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity; and that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive any
gift or grant funds; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 6. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF
516, 20 SF 523, 20 SF 535, 20 SF 538, 20
SF 544, 20 SF 552, 20 SF 558, 20 SF 561
and shall also be charged against the
proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify
the amount of any purchase under the
contract, each of which purchases
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works or Capital Projects, as appropriate may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the cost of the
Improvement and purchases made
using standard contracts authorized
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF
516, 20 SF 523, 20 SF 535, 20 SF 538, 20
SF 544, 20 SF 552, 20 SF 558, 20 SF 561,
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any gift or grant received for
this project and the cash donation
received from Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc. authorized under
Ordinance No. 1381-14, passed November 17, 2014, and any other funds
approved by the Director of Finance,
Request No. RQS 0103, RL 2015-43.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Capital Projects, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and
Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 355-15.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance that an
unnamed City-owned parcel that is
unofficially called “Triangle Park” in
Ward 8 be named “Veteran’s Park.”
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the un-named City-owned parcel
that is unofficially called “Triangle
Park” and is located in Ward 8 at the

387

7
intersections of Lakeshore Boulevard, East 174th Street and Nottingham Road be named “Veteran’s Park.”
Renovations of the newly named Veteran’s Park are being sponsored by
the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
District in partnership with Ward 8
Council Member Michael D. Polensek
and the Ward 8 community.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 354-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of East
4th Street and East 6th Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of East 4th Street and East
6th Street, as described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
East 4th Street (Partial Vacation)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of East 4th
Street (60 feet wide) and being part of
Original Two Acre Lot Nos. 100 & 101
and is further bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a 1" iron pin found at
the intersection of the center line of
East 4th Street (60 feet wide) and the
center line of Prospect Avenue S.E.
(82.5 feet wide);
Thence South 12°-09'-05" East,
along the center line of said East 4th
Street, a distance of 41.22 feet to a
point of intersection with the Southerly right-of-way of said Prospect
Avenue;
Thence North 77°-56'-10" East,
along the Southerly right-of-way of
said Prospect Avenue, a distance of
10.00 feet and the principle place of
beginning
of
the
land
herein
described.
Course 1:
Thence North 77°-56'-10" East,
along the Southerly right-of-way of
said Prospect Avenue, a distance of
20.00 feet to its intersection with the
Easterly right-of-way of said East 4th
Street;
Course 2:
Thence
along the
said East
176.16 feet

South 12°-09'-05" East,
Easterly right-of-way of
4th Street, a distance of
to an angle point;

The City Record

8
Course 3:
Thence South 46°-27'-25" East, continuing along the Easterly right-ofway of said East 4th Street, a distance
of 55.15 feet to an angle point;
Course 4:
Thence South 33°-59'-52" East, continuing along the Easterly right-ofway of said East 4th Street, a distance
of 146.92 feet to its intersection with
the Northerly right-of-way line of
Huron Road (94 feet wide);
Course 5:
Thence South 55°-57'-58" West,
along the Northerly right-of-way line
of said Huron Road, a distance of
45.50 feet;
Course 6:
Thence North 33°-56'-22" West, a
distance of 170.74 feet;
Course 7:
Thence North 12°-09'-05" West, a
distance of 216.60 feet to the principle
place of beginning and containing
0.2809 Acres (12,238 Square Feet) of
land.
Be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
East 6th Street (Vacation)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being part of Original Two Acre
Lot No. 102, further bounded and
described as follows:
Being all that portion of East 6th
Street (12.00 feet wide) extending
from the south right of way of
Prospect Avenue S.E. (82.5 feet wide)
southerly to the north right of way of
Huron Road (94 feet wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 356-15.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch a banner at East 55th Street
and Scovill Avenue near East Technical High School, for the period from
May 27, 2015 to June 26, 2015, inclusive, publicizing the Annual Ward 5
Family Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Department

of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch a banner at East 55th Street
and Scovill Avenue near East Technical High School, for the period from
May 27, 2015 to June 26, 2015, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Capital Projects, in
consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere
with any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner of
any pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial
advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed promptly upon
the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 357-15.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with the Greater Cleveland Sports Commission for the
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission’s Urban Youth Recreation Initiative through the use of Ward 17
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Greater Cleveland Sports Commission for the
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission’s Urban Youth Recreation Initiative for the public purpose of providing organized recreational sporting
activities to City of Cleveland youth
through the use of Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $25,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

388

April 1, 2015
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 358-15.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with Community Service Alliance for the ProCop House
Project through the use of Ward 14
Casino revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Community Service
Alliance for the ProCop House Project for the public purpose of doing
exterior improvements to a residential home that serves as a transitioning site for homeless men through the
use of Ward 14 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $7,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 359-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the YMCA Firecracker
Run, on July 4, 2015, sponsored by
Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the YMCA Firecracker Run, on July 4,
2015, start: 10K Route—St. Clair
Avenue and East 12th Street; St. Clair
west to West 9th Street; West 9th
north to Lakeside Avenue; Lakeside
east to West 3rd Street; West 3rd
north to Erieside Avenue; Erieside
east to North Marginal Road; North
Marginal Road east to East 26th
Street bridge; East 26th Street bridge
south to South Marginal Road; South
Marginal Road west to West 3rd
Street on-ramp; West 3rd street onramp to Tunnel; Tunnel thru parking
lot to West 3rd Street West 3rd south

April 1, 2015
to Lakeside Avenue; Lakeside west to
West 9th Street West 9th south to St.
Clair Avenue; St. Clair east to East
12th Street—finish line; 2 Mile
Walk—St. Clair Avenue and East 12th
Street; St. Clair west to West 9th
Street; West 9th north to Lakeside
Avenue; Lakeside east to East 13th
Street; East 13th south to Hamilton
Avenue; Hamilton west to East 12th
Street – finish line; provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 360-15.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 3585
West 117th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by of an the Division of Liquor
Control application for a New C1
Liquor Permit at 117 Gas Ltd., 3585
West 117th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44111, Permanent Number 6548450;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth

The City Record
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 117 Gas Ltd., 3585
West 117th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44111, Permanent Number 6548450;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 361-15.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 6718 St.
Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by of an the Division of Liquor
Control application for a New C1
Liquor Permit at PZB, LLC, DBA
Prijatels Pharmacy, 6718 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 7128579; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public

389

9
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at PZB, LLC, DBA Prijatels Pharmacy, 6718 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 7128579; and requests
the Superintendent of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 364-15.
By Council Members Brady, Cummins, Reed, Mitchell, Polensek, Cimperman, J. Johnson, Conwell, Keane,
Kazy, Pruitt, Dow, Zone, Brancatelli,
Cleveland, and Kelley.
An emergency resolution urging
the U.S. Congress to consider adding
to The Affordable Care Act, provisions for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for the
increasing senior population in the
United States.
Whereas, long-term care (LTC) is
the help someone needs if he or she
is no longer able to care for him or
herself because of, for example, prolonged physical illness, a disability
or
cognitive
impairment
like
Alzheimer’s disease; and
Whereas, LTC may be provided in
a variety of settings, including nursing home care, home health care,
respite care, hospice care, adult day
care and assisted living facility
care; and
Whereas, neither Medicare nor traditional health insurance plans will
cover most costs of LTC; and
Whereas, the costs of LTC depend
on the level of care needed, where
it is given and for how long; inhome care can be up to $50/hour;
nursing home care in Ohio can cost
more than $200/day; and
Whereas, recent federal figures
show: Medicaid pays about
of all

10
nursing home costs; patients pay
out-of-pocket
for
about
40%;
Medicare pays about 10%; and
Whereas, LTC insurance policies
cover specific care, but you still
need Medicare and/or private health
insurance because LTC insurance
generally does not pay other medical or hospital bills; and
Whereas, LTC insurance may be
one of the most expensive policies a
person will ever purchase; a premium will be more than $1,000/year for
a person age 65 or older and is
expected to increase in the future;
and
Whereas, Medicaid will pay for
LTC when you no longer have the
resources to pay your own bills; and
Whereas, baby boomers continue
to age so that by 2029, when the last
round of boomers reaches retirement
age, the number of Americans 65 or
older will reach more than 71 million – a 73% increase from 2011; and
Whereas, this increase in seniors
in the United States who will need
LTC necessitates that the federal
government find a way to provide
for affordable and effective longterm health care; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the U.S. Congress to consider adding
to The Affordable Care Act, provisions for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for the
increasing senior population in the
United States.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to President Barack
Obama, Secretary of Health and
Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell and all members of the United
States Congress.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 46-15.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to accept, acquire, and
record certain easement interests
from the Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Authority for a public sidewalk near the corner of East 30th
Street and Central Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services

The City Record
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 75-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cimperman and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 835-14, passed September 29, 2014,
relating to a permit to encroach into
the public right-of-way of East 9th
Street, Superior Avenue, and Walnut
Avenue by installing, using, and
maintaining permanent streetscape
improvements.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees in Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 76-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants
from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development for
the CDBG Year 41 under the Title I of
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2015 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act
Program, Emergency Solutions Grant
Program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development. Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 112-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Sherwin-Williams
Company to encroach into the public
right-of-way of Canal Road by
installing, using, and maintaining a
fiber-optic
communications
duct
bank.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 123-15.
By Council Members Mitchell, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for the rehabilitation of Woodland Avenue from West
of East 89th Street to East 116th
Street (Martin Luther King Jr.

390

April 1, 2015
Drive); and causing payment to the
State of Ohio for the City’s share of
the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 124-15.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman, K. Johnson and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for constructing
the Lakefront West Project; and causing payment to the State of Ohio for
the City’s share of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 125-15.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for the reconstructing and streetscaping of East
22nd Street from Orange Avenue to
Euclid Avenue; and causing payment
to the State of Ohio for the City’s
share of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 147-15.
By Council Members Pruitt, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, Section 1, and Section 4 of
Ordinance No. 889-12, passed August 8,
2012, relating to the design and construction of the East 75th Street Area
Sewer Project; and to supplement the
ordinance by adding new Sections 3a,
3b, 3c, and 3d.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Utilities, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 190-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an agreement with the Children’s Hunger Alliance to participate
in an after school hot-meal program

April 1, 2015
during the 2015-16 school year at all
City recreation centers and to reimburse the Children’s Hunger Alliance
for the cost of any unserved meals, for
a period of one year, with a one-year
option to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services ad Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 193-15.
By Council Members Kazy, Pruitt,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell a portion of Cityowned property no longer needed for
the City’s public use located at 4514
West 130th Street to B.M.W. Realty
Company, Incorporated, for purposes
of business expansion of Denison
Auto Parts, Inc.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Utilities, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 198-15.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance designating the Stuyvesant Motor Company
Building as a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 218-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to employ one or more professional consultants to evaluate, assess,
and remediate brownfield properties
throughout the City of Cleveland.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 2, line 3, strike “2015-6”
and insert “RL 2015-26”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

11
Ord. No. 265-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the collective bargaining agreement
with the Longshoreman Association,
Local 1317; and to amend Section 19 of
Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31,
2014, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 266-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Municipal Construction Equipment Operators Labor
Council; and to amend Section 12 of
Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March
31, 2014, relating to compensation
for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 323-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance establishing salary and wage schedules for various classifications, effective as of April
1, 2015; and repealing existing Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31, 2014, as amended.
Approved by Directors of Human Resources, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 12, strike lines 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 in their entirety and insert:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Building Stationary Engineer ................................................
Chief Building Stationary Engineer....................................
Chief Stationary Engineer ......................................................
Stationary Boiler Room Operator .........................................
Water Plant Operator I............................................................
Water Plant Operator II ..........................................................

“Minimum
$20.05
21.43
22.76
20.80
20.09
22.68

Maximum
$27.55”.
28.93”.
30.26”.
28.30”.
23.51”.
27.54”.

2. In Section 19, strike lines 4, 5 and 6 in their entirety and insert:
“Minimum
Maximum
1.
Electric Bridge Operator..........................................................
$10.00
$18.80”.
2.
Electric Bridge Operator Leader ..........................................
10.00
20.13”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16. Nays
0.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED

third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

Res. No. 330-15.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution declaring this Council’s partnership with
and support of the City of Brooklyn
in its application to the Northeast
Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency
(NOACA) for the Transportation for
Livable
Communities
Initiative
(TLCI) grant to further study the
Big
Creek/I-71
Relocation
and
Restoration Initiative.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Kazy, the absence of Council Member Brian J. Cummins is hereby
authorized.
Seconded by Council
Member J. Johnson.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

MOTION

THE CALENDAR

The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:39 p.m. to meet on Monday, April
6, 2015, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

391

The City Record

12
BOARD OF CONTROL

March 25, 2015
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, March 25, 2015
at 10:41 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.
Present: Director Langhenry, Acting Directors Badalamenti, Wood,
Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors Williams, Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols and Acting
Director McNamara.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
McGrath and O’Leary.
Others: Deborah Midgett, Acting
Commissioner, Division of Purchases & Supplies.
Melissa Burrows, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 89-15.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1080-99, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on May 22,
2000, and Board of Control Resolution No. 808-00, adopted December 6,
2000, the City of Cleveland entered
into City Contract No. 57651 with
Montgomery Watson Americas, Inc.
to acquire implementation consultant services for a Citywide Geographic Information System Program by acquisition and implementation of certain Accela software,
for various divisions of City Government; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 6-03, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on March 24,
2003, the City entered into an
Amendment to Contract No. 57651 to
add performance of Phase II of the
Citywide
Geographic
Information
System (“GIS”) Program, including,
but not limited to, implementation,
data conversion, software, maintenance in hardware and software,
training, QA/QC, parcel conversion,
application development of manuals
and optional tasks to the scope of
work under Contract No. 57651; and
Whereas, in connection with the
preparation for the 2016 Republican
National
Convention,
the
City
requires additional professional services to expedite implementation of
Phase II of the GIS Program to provide automation of and support for
the consolidated and streamlined
permitting functions under Phase II
through two additional phases, and
to continue maintenance and technical support of the Accela software
for the GIS Program; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Board of Control Resolution No. 2413, adopted January 8, 2013, the City
of Cleveland, through the Director
of Finance, entered into City Contract No. PS2013*081 with TruePoint
Solutions, LLC (“Consultant”), to
provide the professional services
necessary to install, design, train,
implement, test, integrate, migrate,
maintain, and provide technical support and other related services,
including any equipment necessary
to maintain the Accela software for
the GIS Program, for a period of two
(2) years expiring on or about April
3, 2015, for various divisions of City
Government; now, therefore,

Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under division (b) of Section
181.102 C.O., TruePoint Solutions,
LLC is selected upon the nomination
of the Director of Finance, as determined after a full and complete canvass, as the firm to be employed by
contract for a period of two (2)
years to provide professional services as necessary to install, design,
train, implement, test, integrate,
migrate, maintain, and provide technical support and other related services, including any equipment necessary, to maintain the Accela GIS
Program software acquired under
Contract No. 57651 with Montgomery
Watson Americas, Inc., as amended,
for the expedited implementation of
Phase II of the GIS Program and for
continued maintenance and technical support of the software, as
described in this resolution.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into a contract with TruePoint
Solutions, LLC, based on its proposal dated March 12, 2015, for a period of two (2) years starting on or
about April 4, 2015, for the abovereferenced professional services, as
described in this resolution. The
compensation to be paid for the services under the contract authorized
shall not exceed $747,912.50.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Badalamenti, Wood, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Williams,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington, Nichols and Acting
Director McNamara.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 90-15.
By Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under authority of Ordinance
No. 1131-14, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on September
15, 2014, the firm of Fiscal Choice
Consulting, LLC. is selected, upon
nomination
of
the
Director
of
Finance, as the firm of consultants
available to be employed by contract
to update the indirect cost allocation
plan, according to guidelines provided in the Federal Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Cost
Principles, Circular A-87, including
allocation methodologies and final
Indirect Cost Rates for allowable
cost services the City provides under
grants, contracts, Enterprise Funds,
and other agreements with non-profit organizations.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into a written contract with
Fiscal Choice Consulting, LLC. Inc.,
based upon its November 3, 2014 proposal, provided that the compensation to Fiscal Choice Consulting,
LLC. for the services authorized
shall not exceed $64,900.00, that the
Director of Law shall prepare the
contract
authorized
which
shall
include such other provisions as she
considers necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Badalamenti, Wood, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Williams,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington, Nichols and Acting
Director McNamara.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
McGrath and O’Leary.

392

April 1, 2015
Resolution No. 91-15.
By Interim Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Jack Doheny
Companies, Inc. except for such
terms and conditions as are unacceptable to the Director of Law, for
an estimated quantity of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain
catch
basin
cleaning
trucks Group 2 (all items), for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two (2) years starting
upon the later of execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
received on December 3, 2014, under
the authority of Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount
to
$50,000.00
(0%),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Badalamenti, Wood, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Williams,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington, Nichols and Acting
Director McNamara.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 92-15.
By Interim Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Best Equipment Co. for
an estimated quantity of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain
catch
basin
cleaning
trucks Group 1 (all items), for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two (2) years starting
upon the later of execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
received on December 3, 2014, under
the authority of Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $200,000.00 (0% - 30 days),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Badalamenti, Wood, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Williams,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington, Nichols and Acting
Director McNamara.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
McGrath and O’Leary.

April 1, 2015
Resolution No. 93-15.
By Interim Director Dumas.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Universal Oil Inc. for an
estimated quantity of materials to
provide off-road fossil fuel and supporting services, Group 1, all items,
for the various Divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods or services, with an
option to renew for one additional
year, received on February 6, 2015
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $177,849.80 (Net
30), is affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for the goods and/or services necessary for the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Badalamenti, Wood, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Williams,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington, Nichols and Acting
Director McNamara.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 94-15.
By Interim Director Dumas.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of O.E. Meyer Co. for an estimated quantity of materials to provide off-road fossil fuel and supporting services, Group 2, all items,
for the various Divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods or services, with an
option to renew for one additional
year, received on February 6, 2015
the
authority
of
Section
under
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $19,160.00 (Net 30),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary for
the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Badalamenti, Wood, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Williams,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington, Nichols and Acting
Director McNamara.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
McGrath and O’Leary.

The City Record
Resolution No. 95-15.
By Interim Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Jack Doheny
Companies, Inc. except for such
terms and conditions as are unacceptable to the Director of Law, for
an estimated quantity of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain combination sewer and
catch basin cleaning trucks Group 1
(all items), for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years starting upon
the later of execution of a contract
or the day following expiration of
the currently effective contract for
the goods and/or services, received
on December 3, 2014, under the
authority of Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$200,000.00 (0%), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the specified
goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Badalamenti, Wood, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Williams,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington, Nichols and Acting
Director McNamara.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 96-15.
By Interim Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Dreier &
Maller, Inc. except for such terms
and conditions as are unacceptable
to the Director of Law, for an estimated quantity of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain
combination sewer and catch basin
cleaning trucks Group 2 (all items),
for the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years
starting upon the later of execution
of a contract or the day following
expiration of the currently effective
contract for the goods and/or services, received on December 3, 2014,
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $50,000.00 (0% - 0
days), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Public
Utilities
is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the specified
goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
quantity,
as
may
be
estimated
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Badalamenti, Wood, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors

393

13
Williams,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington, Nichols and Acting
Director McNamara.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
McGrath and O’Leary.
Resolution No. 97-15.
By Director McGrath.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 610-09, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on June 1,
2009, the City of Cleveland, through
the Director of Safety entered into
an agreement with Intergraph Corporation,
City
Contract
No.
2010000000051, for a period of one
year, for software, equipment software maintenance and support, project management and implementation, training, and related services
for expansion of, the Computer
Aided Dispatch System, for the Divisions of Police, Fire, and EMS,
Department of Public Safety; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with the
software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain the software, including but
not limited to, maintenance, repair,
upgrade, enhancements, and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
Intergraph Corporation to obtain the
professional maintenance and technical support services necessary to
maintain and support the ComputerAided Dispatch System and Mobile
System for a period of eighteen
months; now; therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under division (e) of Section 181.102
C.O., the compensation to be paid for
the maintenance and technical support services to be performed under
the agreement with Intergraph Corporation is fixed at an amount not
to exceed $519,324.00.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Acting
Directors Badalamenti, Wood, Directors Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Williams,
Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington, Nichols and Acting
Director McNamara.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
McGrath and O’Leary.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the

The City Record

14
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________

Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Exam
Type

EE

Amr Field
Services
Specialist

3a

EE

Asst Water
Plant Manager Parma
Non-Comp

Open

36

WR

Buyer

37

EE

Chief Building
Inspector
Non-Comp

38

EE

Chief Training
Officer
Non-Comp

39

OR, EE Correctional
Officer

Open

OR, EE Correctional
Supervisor

Open

41

OR, EE,
TY
Emergency
Medical
Dispatcher

Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).

35

40

vice Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:

Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2015
Filing Beginning 4/10/2015

April 1, 2015

Open

School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.

Open

42

EE

Epidemiologist
Non-Comp

43

EE

Geriatric
Outreach
Worker

44

EE

Grant Administrator
Non-Comp

45

EE

IT Systems
Security
Officer
Non-Comp

Open

46

EE

Reporter/Producer
TV 20
Non-Comp

47

WR

Talent
Development
Assistant

Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 35
AMR FIELD SERVICES SPECIALIST (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY

48

EE

Open

Talent
Development
Specialist
Non-Comp

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Ser-

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $27,325.56 - $88,000.00 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO

394

APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 16, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, supports the Automated Meter Reading (AMR) Operations section by monitoring, maintaining, troubleshooting, and reporting on the AMR network infrastructure (data collectors, repeaters, endpoints, network cabling, radio frequency antennae). Reports metrics
using Itron’s AMR Applications (Network Administration Application
(NAA), Network Performance Application (NPA) and network software
tools on a daily basis to the AMR
application
manager
and
other
department managers as needed.
Diagnoses issues and implements
solutions related to radio frequency
communication between the endpoints, data collectors, and the department’s IT data network. Coordinates
and ensures proper installation and
repair of infrastructure with other
departmental staff and contractors as
necessary. Performs wiring, antenna,
and bracing repairs for network
infrastructure. Researches specific
work orders, meters, or customer service questions. Monitors work order
status. Reports and resolves issues
found from analysis. Monitors AMR
system performance and provides
daily reports. Assists with field investigations performed by Meter Operations. Analyzes work order data
exceptions and identifies trends.
Updates meter, endpoint, and customer information using Extensible
Markup Language (XML) for Itron
applications. Works closely with the
department’s customer service units
to quickly resolve customer issues.
Reports on work order installation
progress, work orders by status categories, and data exception metrics to
the AMR application manager. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in

April 1, 2015

The City Record

accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

examination for the above mentioned
classification.

MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:

SALARY

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Engineering, Electronics, Information Science, or Computer Science or a
related field from an accredited college or university is required. Four
(4) years of full-time, paid experience
performing Radio Frequency (RF)
engineering tasks such as installing,
configuring, monitoring, diagnosing,
and repairing RF communication
devices with at least (1) of these
years using Itron AMR applications is
required. (Substitution: One (1) year
of experience may be substituted for
each year of college education lacking.) Must have a thorough understanding of AMR technology and
infrastructure as well as experience
with Linux and Linux-based network
routing analysis software. Must be
able to lift 40 pounds and work in an
outdoor environment and under varied weather conditions. Must be proficient in the use of Microsoft Office
Suite. THE FOLLOWING ARE PREFERRED: Experience developing
scripts or programming code to perform network analysis tasks; Experience analyzing data in Microsoft SQL
Server databases and developing
reports using SQL Server Report Services (SSRS).
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 3A
ASSISTANT WATER PLANT MANAGER - PARMA (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 to $34.11 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY SIX MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

15
required. Oversees inspections of
tanks and water quality checks. Acts
as a liaison between the Division and
other
agencies
in
emergencies.
Assumes the duties of the Parma Control Manager in his/her absence. Must
be on-call 24 hours a day. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam). Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. Five years of full time paid
experience in water hydraulics or
Parma Control operations is required.
Must be computer proficient and have
a working knowledge of the SCADA
system. This position requires a high
degree of mobility. Knowledge of
labor relations as well as EPA and
OSHA regulations is preferred. An
Ohio EPA Class II Water Distribution
License is required, a Class III Water
Supply License is preferred. A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 36
BUYER (OPEN)

THOSE
PERSONS
WHO
NOTE:
HAVE ALREADY FILED FOR THIS
EXAM DO NOT NEED TO FILE
AGAIN.
THEIR
APPLICATIONS
WILL BE RE-EVALUATED WITH
NEW CHANGES TO THE MINIMUM
QUALIFICATIONS.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision of the Parma Control Manager, assists in the operation
and maintenance of the Parma Control Center. Diagnoses problems of
the distribution system and takes corrective action. Ensures proper water
pressure and flow of an area. Reviews
operational reports of the previous
day’s shifts. Prepares daily work
schedules and instructions for all
shifts. Studies the current status of
the entire water system. Evaluates
valve closures, storage facilities, and
station operations. Performs system
analyses with the aide of the computer. Ensures the accuracy of the
SCADA system. Updates software programs and reprograms as the need
arises. Completes necessary reports

395

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $49,930.03 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 13,
2015 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 10, 2015.

The City Record

16
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION:
Applicants will be notified of the
time, date, and place of the test via
U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, locates supply
sources and purchases supplies and
equipment. Advertises for bids. Analyzes bids received and makes recommendations.
Resolves
purchase
and/or supplier issues. Writes purchase specifications. Performs other
job-related duties as required. TYPICAL TASKS: Interviews salespersons
concerning market conditions and
sources of supply. Tabulates and summarizes requests for supplies. Sorts
and tabulates bids. Identifies lowest
and best bidder. Checks prices and
specifications of previous orders.
Checks invoices, requisitions, and
vouchers. Selects bidders from buyers’ guides and posts requisitions for
bids. Follows up on orders and handles complaints. Maintains records of
prices
and
sources
of
supply.
Approves invoices for purchases. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe work practices. Attends
and participates in operations and
safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of
competence may be determined by
exam.) Wears and properly utilizes
safety equipment in accordance with
Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s degree in Business, Marketing or related field from
an accredited four (4) year college or
university is required. Two (2) years
of full time paid purchasing experience is required. (Substitution: Two
years of experience may substitute
for each year of college education
lacking.) Must have on-line procurement experience and be proficient in
computers and computer software
applications, including but not limited to Microsoft Office Suite. Must be
highly skilled in using the Internet.
Excellent organizational skills as
well as written and verbal communication skills are required. Must be
able to lift a minimum of thirty (30)
pounds. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 37
CHIEF
BUILDING
(NON-COMP)

INSPECTOR

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 to $70,053.60 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.

396

April 1, 2015
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY NINE MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under
direction,
supervises
the
inspection of buildings and other
structures to ensure compliance with
Cleveland and Ohio Basic Building
Codes, and other regulations related
to the location, design, construction
and maintenance of structures. Supervises annual licensing inspections of
dance halls, pool halls, amusement
devices, day care centers, auto repair
garages, and other facilities, as mandated. Assigns and supervises the
work of building inspectors and clerical personnel in code enforcement
work sections. Conducts training sessions for building inspection staff.
Conducts training sessions for building inspection staff. Conducts afterhours inspections as directed. Performs building conditions surveys.
Attends and/or presents at community meetings. Evaluates new construction materials for potential use.
Reviews various sources of information concerning new construction
methods and changes in ordinances.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Ten years of full time experience in the construction industry for
work subject to inspection in accordance with State construction codes
by a municipal inspection agency is
required. Experience may consist of a
combination of construction supervision, general trades tradesmen, Building Inspection and Code Enforcement. Building Inspection and Code
Enforcement must be for a State Certified Agency for work covered by the
Ohio Building Codes and the rules of
The Ohio Board of Building Standards (OBBS). A minimum of five
years of required experience in nonresidential construction as well as a
maximum of five years of required
experience can be in Building Inspection and/ or Code Enforcement. (Substitutions: An Associate’s degree from
an accredited college or university in
Construction Technology may be substituted for two years of required
experience. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Building Design, Architecture, Structural
Engineering,
Construction

The City Record

April 1, 2015
Technology, or Construction Supervision or similar field from an accredited four-year college or university
may be substituted for four years of
required experience.) A full OBBS
certification as a Residential Building Inspector or Residential Building
Official is required. A full OBBS certification as a Building Inspector is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required. Technical
understanding of all phases of construction is required including: bearing capacities of soils and materials;
structural and architectural design
practices and documentation; interior
and exterior building elements and
installation; and means and methods
for the erection, construction, installation and alteration of structures.
Experience in the evaluation and
approval of work to an approved
design is required including proficiency in interpreting architectural,
structural and mechanical drawing
and details. Understanding of the
enforcement of land use designations
and regulations is required. State Certifications and Valid Driver’s license
must be maintained throughout
employment.

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY NINE MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

17
competencies: persuasiveness, developing others and innovation. A working knowledge of MS Office Suite is
required (i.e. Word, Excel, Access,
PowerPoint, etc.). A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
Must be able to stand for prolonged
periods and may be required to travel
and
work
untraditional
shifts,
depending on training needs. A
knowledge of HRMS/HRIS systems is
preferred.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 38
CHIEF TRAINING OFFICER (NONCOMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $26,273.96 to $72,945.53 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under direction, assists in the formulation and administration of employee job training, development, and succession planning programs. Coordinates the activities of designated
trainers. Instructs candidates for
trainer positions in methods of
instruction. Schedules courses and
assigns instructors. Instructs courses.
Facilitates and administers knowledge capture, (that is, the obtainment
and documentation of information to
support training and development
activities), and knowledge management activities to identify, create, represent, and distribute knowledge for
re-use, awareness, and learning. Performs
other
related
duties
as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Human
Resources
Development,
Business
Administration,
Teaching/Education (preferably Adult
Education), Instructional Technology, or closely related field from an
accredited four year college or university is required. One year of full
time paid experience in the development and/or execution of training
activities is required. (Substitution:
Experience may be substituted by relevant experience gained through an
internship/work study program on a
month-for-month basis.) Must possess
creative ability, writing proficiency,
and effective communication and
interpersonal skills. Must also demonstrate strength in the following key

397

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 39
CORRECTIONAL OFFICER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $16.95 - $18.98 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available
online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 23, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility and 50%
of the final grade will be determined
based on Education, Experience, Professional Certifications, etc. found in
Resume.
ORAL INTERVIEW: This portion of
the exam will be worth 50% of the
final grade. Candidates will be notified of the time, date, and place of the
examination.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT

The City Record

18
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under
immediate
supervision,
assumes responsibility for the custody of inmates. Escorts, transports,
and guards inmates as required.
Maintains discipline and order among
inmates and their conformance to
rules and regulations to prevent
escape. Supervises the conduct of
inmates during meal times. Develops
and assigns work assignments to
inmates and supervises their work
while at the facility. Controls unruly
inmates using proper procedures and
techniques. Books prisoners. Searches
inmates entering buildings in an
approved manner for restricted items.
Checks prisoners in and out of facilities as required. Makes bed checks
and performs head counts. Patrols
assigned posts and other areas including cellblocks, corridors, and the general premises in a vigilant manner.
Locks and unlocks doors as required.
Maintains security over guns and
facility keys. Guards buildings and
grounds against unauthorized trespass, theft, or damage from fire or
other causes. Carries out orders and
directives as assigned. Prepares daily
reports, logs, and other documents, as
required, to properly document daily
work and activities. Performs LEADS
record checks regarding inmates. Utilizes division’s record management
system. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Must obtain an O.P.O.T.A.
Correctional Officer’s certification
within one year of the date of hire.
Must also complete an approved
firearm training course and qualify
with a .38 caliber weapon within one
year of the date of hire. Must be computer literate and be able to lift and
carry a minimum of 40 lbs. A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must be capable of becoming LEADS certified within 60 days of
the date of hire. The following are
preferred: OPATA Jail certification
and/or two years of jail experience;
Firearm training certificate and/or
Commission card. FELONY AND
SOME
MISDEMEANOR
CONVICTIONS MAY DISQUALIFY CANDIDATES.

employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. Any applicant who can provide proof of unemployment, public
assistance, or indigence is exempt
from the filing fee. A copy of such
proof must be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 40
CORRECTIONAL
(OPEN)

SUPERVISOR

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $52,733.77 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 23, 2015.

NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 2015.

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

398

April 1, 2015
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility and 50%
of the final grade will be determined
based on Education, Experience, Professional Certifications, etc. found in
Resume.
ORAL INTERVIEW: This portion of
the exam will be worth 50% of the
final grade. Candidates will be notified of the time, date, and place of the
examination.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under direction, supervises and coordinates the work performed by correctional workers. Assigns daily
work to security staff. Reviews and
records staff attendance records in
compliance
with
City
policies.
Ensures minimum coverage exists for
security functions. Audits and maintains a journal of security activities.
Reviews reports, logs, and other
records prepared by personnel for
clarity, completeness, accuracy, and
conformance with institutional policies and procedures. Writes reports
and routes approved reports and
records to Commissioner or designee
for action. Coordinates security staff
and other units. Directs activity during an emergency. May assist in planning and delivery of staff training
and indoctrination. Approves leave
requests. Evaluates personnel performance and initiates subordinate staff
disciplinary actions. Performs other
job-related duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe work practices. Attends
and participates in operations and
safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of
competence may be determined by
exam.) Wears and properly utilizes
safety equipment in accordance with
Divisional policy at all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree from a
four (4) year accredited college or
university in Criminal Justice or a
closely related field is required.
Three (3) years of full time paid experience in a correctional institution or
related justice component is required.
A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License
is required. (Substitution: One year of
full time paid experience will substitute for each year of college education lacking.) Must obtain certification for minimum standards for full
service jails within one year of
appointment. Must pass an extensive
background check. Must be able to
become LEADS certified.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing

The City Record

April 1, 2015
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 41
EMERGENCY
MEDICAL
PATCHER (OPEN)

DIS-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $24,765.24 - $43,838.44 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 16, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: 25% of applicant’s grade will
be determined based on Education
and Experience found in Resume.
Each applicant is required to submit a
detailed resume of his/her education
and experience at the time of filing
application.
ORAL INTERVIEW: 50% of applicant’s grade will be determined based
on an oral interview

WRITTEN EXAMINATION: 25% of
applicant’s grade will be determined
by a written examination
TYPING TEST: This portion of the
test is Pass-Fail. Applicants will be
required to take a typing exam and
MUST be able to type 25 wpm with
90% accuracy. Failure to type the
minimum words per minute AND the
required percentage of accuracy will
result in a zero for the final score.
Applicants will be notified of the
time, date, and place of the exams by
U.S. Mail or via contact information
provided.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, answers
emergency telephone calls from citizens and other agencies; elicits pertinent information, prioritizes the call
utilizing information received from
the caller, and assigns the proper priority code. Provides post-dispatch
information and lifesaving prearrival instructions to the callers. Displays
compassion
and
empathy
toward callers at all times; utilizes
different techniques to calm callers
when needed. Maintains proficiency
in emergency dispatch in order to
achieve and maintain certification in
priority dispatch. Operates the Division of Emergency Medical Service
computers as well as phone and radio
equipment according to City and FCC
rules and regulations. Maintains
familiarity with the streets of Cleveland and dispatches Emergency Medical Service units on the basis of
availability and proximity to scene of
the requested service. Coordinates
emergencies needing multiple Emergency Medical Service units and
resources from other agencies. Maintains
familiarity
with
various
resource agencies used by Emergency Medical Service (e.g.: Police,
Fire, Coast Guard, etc.) and contacts
these agencies as needed. Performs
other related duties as may be
assigned or required to meet emergency situations. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required; an Associate’s Degree or
Certificates of Medical Assistance or
Health Care Aide are preferred. Bilingual candidates are also preferred.
Must have a working knowledge of
computers and be able to type at least
25 words per minute with 90% accuracy. Must be able to lift and carry 30
pounds.

399

19
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 42
EPIDEMIOLOGIST (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $40,000.00 to $85,281.07 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

The City Record

20
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY NINE MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative direction, provides expertise in the systematic collection, management, and statistical
analysis of data for public health purposes, including program planning,
population health assessment, surveillance systems, and outbreak
investigations. Performs interviews
and supervises field investigators.
Determines disease patterns and epidemiology during infectious disease
outbreaks. Assists staff in the interpretation and application of data.
Makes presentations regarding local
health trends. Assists in program
evaluation grant proposal preparation. Analyzes disease patterns and
outbreaks. Calculates attack rates,
epidemic curves, and other relevant
statistics. Attends meetings with
county and regional public health and
infectious disease experts regarding
bio-terror preparedness and disease
surveillance. Prepares appropriate
reports. Supervises the Disease Surveillance Specialist. Performs other
job-related duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe work practices. Attends
and participates in operations and
safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of
competence may be determined by
exam). Wears and properly utilizes
safety equipment in accordance with
Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Master’s Degree in Public
Health from the Council on Education
in Public Health (CEPH), or Epidemiology, Statistics, or a closely
related field from an accredited college or university is required. Six
months of experience in epidemiology/statistical analysis or related
field (e.g.: statistics) is required. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must own or have access to
a properly registered and insured
motor vehicle for business use. Must
be computer proficient in Microsoft
Office Suite.

NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 43
GERIATRIC OUTREACH WORKER
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $22.17 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 16, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

April 1, 2015
individuals may best provide the necessary services. Assists the elderly in
making contact with the proper
authorities. Intervenes in crisis situations involving the elderly and performs related duties as required.
TYPICAL TASKS: Contacts the elderly. Is aware of benefits which may be
available (tax credits, energy credits,
etc.). Maintains a working knowledge of social service agencies and
the services they provide. Is familiar
with an assigned area of the City.
Answers telephone calls. Visits nurses, transportation services, etc. to
arrange care for elderly. Contacts
County Authorities to avoid eviction
of elderly persons. Maintains daily
contact with departmental supervisors. Maintains a working file of
active clients. Follows all operations
and safety policies and safe work
practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Four years of full time experience in Human Services dealing
with older persons is required. (Substitution: A Bachelor’s Degree in
Gerontology, Education, Social Work,
or a closely related field from a fouryear accredited college or university
may substitute for experience.) A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Bilingual is preferred.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, locates
and contacts elderly persons who may
be in need of services. Determines
which services, benefits, or entitlements they may be in greatest need
of. Determines which agencies or

400

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

The City Record

April 1, 2015
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 44
GRANT
COMP)

ADMINISTRATOR

(NON-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $22,333.40 to $77,446.20 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

procedures. Develops, submits, and
tracks relevant grant-related legislation. Monitors and evaluates grantfunded programs during the life of
the grant to ensure compliance to
grant conditions, funding source
requirements, and goal achievements.
Collects and maintains federally and
state mandated data unique to each
grant and prepares required reports.
Recommends, develops, and initiates
revisions
whenever
appropriate.
Tracks expiration of current grants
and submits renewal applications.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Business, Accounting, or related field
from an accredited four year college
or university is required. Two years
of full time experience in grant writing and grant administration for a
governmental or non-profit organization is required. (Substitution: Two
years of experience may substitute
for each year of college education
lacking.) Must be computer proficient
and familiar with the Internet and
knowledgeable in Microsoft Office
Suite (Word, Excel, and Access). A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must be able to lift and
carry a minimum of 30 pounds.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY NINE MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Explores and maintains records of
possible grant sources. Prepares
grant applications and proposals,
ascertaining departmental needs,
determining staffing levels and budgets, and gathering other information
necessary to the development of successful grant proposals. Reviews all
grant applications for conformity to
City of Cleveland grant policies and

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 45
IT SYSTEMS SECURITY OFFICER
(NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $30,215.00 to $83,241.98 per Year.

401

21
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY NINE MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Designs, develops, and implements
security changes and enhancements
to the Information Technology (IT)
computing environments citywide. Is
responsible for determining appropriate security measures and creating
policies and procedures that monitor
and
control
access
to
system
resources and data. Oversees the
establishment, implementation, and
adherence to policies and procedures
that guide and support the provision
of information security services. Conducts risk assessments and risk
analyses to help the organization
develop security standards and procedures that support strategic, tactical,
and operation objectives on a costeffective basis. Makes recommendations on appropriate personnel as
well as physical and technical security controls. Manages the information
security incident reporting program
and participates in resolving problems with security violations. Is
responsible for the content and delivery of information security seminars
and training classes. Coordinates the
communication of information security awareness to all members of the
organization. Certifies that IT systems meet predetermined security
requirements
citywide.
Conducts
security audits. Assesses and reviews
security plans, policies and procedures of all City departments/divisions and related entities. Develops
and implements a year-round inservice training program. Performs
other job related duties as required.

The City Record

22
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam). Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science, Information Technology, Engineering, Accounting, or related field from an accredited four year
college or university is required. Two
years of full time paid experience
with the configuration, monitoring, or
security of network, internet, or email
applications in a Windows, Netware,
and/or Unix environment is required.
(Substitution: One year of experience
in Information Technology may substitute for each year of college education lacking.) A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. Must be
able to lift and carry a minimum of 30
pounds. Must possess excellent interpersonal and written communication
skills. The following areas of experience are highly desired: Encryption,
firewalls, Intrusion Detection Systems, Intrusion Prevention Systems,
Virtual Private Networks, Web filtering, IT forensic analysis, and the
principles and use of identification,
authentication, and authorization;
Knowledge of security hardware and
software products that comply with
current industry standards; Hands-on
experience with major security platforms for certification authority,
security management products, and
tools; Monitoring network and systems management processes and
operational procedures; Web hosting;
Microsoft Exchange Server. Certification as an Information Systems and
Security Professional of Information
Systems Auditor is highly desired.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 46
REPORTER/PRODUCER
(NON-COMP)

TV

20

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.

SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 to $70,053.60 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY NINE MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

April 1, 2015
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Communication, Journalism, Public
Relations, or closely related field is
required. (Substitution: A degree/certificate from a technical school in a
closely related field may substitute
for the degree.) Two years of experience as an on air reporter/producer is
required (May include unpaid internships). Must have excellent spoken
and written communication skills.
Must be computer proficient in
Microsoft Office Suites. Must be able
to lift and carry a minimum of 30
pounds. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 47
TALENT DEVELOPMENT
TANT (OPEN)

ASSIS-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $62,000.00 per Year.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
FILING OF APPLICATION
Under
administrative
direction,
researches, collects, and analyzes
information regarding newsworthy
events. Develops story ideas and
writes news stories. Anchors news
shows. Takes photographs or shoots
video to illustrate stories. Edits or
assists in editing videos for broadcast. Appears on television programs
when conducting taped or filmed
interviews or narration. Gives live
reports from site of event or mobile
broadcast unit. Produces and assists
producers with show segments.
Schedules
assignments.
Creates
and/or updates social media sites.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

402

Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 13,
2015 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 10, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION:
Applicants will be notified of the

April 1, 2015
time, date, and place of the test via
U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under the direction of the Manager of
Education and Research, provides
overall administrative support to the
Department’s
HR
Training
and
Development Unit. Takes responsibility and accountability for assigned
projects and duties. Multi tasks equally
important
projects/priorities.
Works independently as well as in a
team environment. Coordinates and
schedules training sessions. Schedules meetings and documents key outcomes and action steps in meeting
minutes.
Provides
training
and
administrative as well as technical
assistance both within and outside of
the department as directed. Provides
accurate, organized, and timely
recordkeeping of all employee registrations, enrollments, completions,
and certificates. Prepares presentations. Develops and publishes a
monthly department training calendar. Provides clerical and administrative support in the production of training manuals and marketing materials. Assists in conducting needs
assessments and reviewing and/or
evaluating program/project impact.
Communicates
training
and
license/certification policies and procedures,
registrations,
confirmations/cancellations, training opportunities, and available resources to
employees at all levels of the organization. Ensures that databases and
enterprise systems are updated, accurate, and complete. Assists in the
development and preparation of
reports. Reconciles invoices and payments of training vendors. Researches training suppliers and materials as
needed. Orders supplies for the training unit and also processes, collects,
and distributes its mail and shipments. Assists in the set up and break
down of training room, audio visual
equipment, and materials. Provides
attendance rosters and other materials to contract instructors. Copies,
scans, and distributes documents as
needed. Coordinates and executes
webinar activities. Seeks opportunities
to
implement
continuous
improvement in processes, forms, and
systems. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Human Resources, Business, or Public Administration or a related field is
required. (Substitution: One year of
paid work experience in a training

The City Record
environment may be substituted for
each year of college education lacking.) Three years of full time paid
experience in a lead administrative or
project management role with primary responsibility for data entry, quality control, and generating reports is
required. An advanced skill level in
Microsoft Office Suite, particularly
PowerPoint and Excel, is required. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must have exceptional written and oral communication skills.
Must have excellent customer service,
problem solving, time management,
planning, administrative, and organization skills as well as a strong attention to detail and process/procedure
discipline. Must be familiar with the
ADDIE (Assess, Design, Develop,
Implementation, Evaluation) model
as it relates to building effective
training programs. Must have the
ability to demonstrate adaptability
and flexibility to change in direction
and priorities and to handle sensitive
and confidential information appropriately. Must be able to lift and carry
a minimum of 30 pounds. The following are preferred: Experience with
Visio, Camtasia, and Captivate; Experience in an administrative function
such as Training or other HR discipline. Own or have access to a properly insured vehicle.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 48
TALENT DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance

403

23
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 to $75,000.00 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 2015.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 2015.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY NINE MONTHS
FROM
THE
DATE
OF
ITS
APPROVAL BY THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under the supervision of the Manager
of Education and Research, assesses,
designs, facilitates, and evaluates
technical, soft skills, industry specific and/or job specific training programs
including
user
manuals,
leader’s guides, job aids, self-instructional learning solutions, e-learning
applications, and all program documentation. Works independently as
well as in a team environment. Works
collaboratively to consult with internal customers to assess performance
gaps and recommends solutions that
take into account cost-benefit analysis, organizational direction, and
scope. Designs, conducts, and analyzes surveys, tests, interviews, focus
groups, observation procedures, and
data to further determine training or
performance needs. Conceptualizes
and designs customized workable
solutions to difficult performance and
training problems. Utilizes an end-toend systems approach to deliver training. Defines and regularly reports
performance measurements to demonstrate the value, quality, and effectiveness of internal or outside/vendor
provided training services to the
organization. Updates training materials as the needs of the business dictate. Assists in the development and
maintenance of a plan to continuously improve training in the most cost

The City Record

24
effective way, taking advantage of
the latest state of the art technologies. Works with the Training Coordinator to track training attendance
and license/certification requirements. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam). Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A Bachelor’s Degree in Business
Administration, Human Resources,
Industrial/Organizational Psychology, Instructional Technology, or Public Administration or a related field
from an accredited four year college
or university is required, a Master’s
Degree is preferred. Five years of full
time paid experience designing, conducting, and evaluating training,
working with a wide range of user
skill levels in a multi-faceted organization is required. Also, Five years of
progressive experience developing
each phase of the ADDIE (Assess,
Design, Develop, Implementation,
Evaluation) model, utilizing blended
learning methodologies in curriculum
design and project management experience is required. Must possess creative ability, writing proficiency, and
effective
communication
skills.
Expertise in adult learning theory,
facilitation skills, advanced instructional technology, media/tools is
required. Must have a strong business
acumen. Must be able to stand for prolonged periods and may be required to
travel to other campus locations and
work non-traditional shifts. Must be
proficient in 2010 Microsoft Office
software (Excel, Outlook, Power
Point, MS Project, Visio) Must be able
to lift and carry a minimum of thirty
pounds. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required. The Following
are Preferred: Experience using
design software such as Adobe CS6 –
Creative Suite (InDesign, Illustrator,
and Photoshop), Captivate, Camtasia;
Working knowledge of Share Point;
Work experience in an union environment; Own or have access to a properly insured vehicle.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
April 1, 2015.

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 15-023: 3179 West 25th
Street (Ward 14)
Woodland Inc. (aka Ali Farai)
proposes to establish use of 16,698
square foot building as a banquet/assembly hall in a C2 Local
Retail
Business
District
and
a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District
(PRO). The owner appeals for relief
from the following sections of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 343.01(b) which states
that a banquet hall is not permitted
in a Local Retail Business District.
2. Section 343.11(b)(2)(L) which
state that a banquet hall is first permitted in a General Retail Business
District only if 500 feet away from
a residential district per Section
347.12(a)(1). Proposed use abuts a
residential District.
3. Section 349.04(e) which states
that an accessory off-street parking
area equal to three times the gross
floor area is required and none are
provided.
4. Section 357.02 which states that
a nonconforming use of a building
or premises which has been discontinued
shall
not
thereafter
be
returned to such nonconforming use.
A nonconforming use shall be considered discontinued: (1) When the
intent of the owner to discontinue
the use is express; or (2) When the
use is voluntarily discontinued for
six (6) months or more. The intent
to voluntarily discontinue a use may
be implied from acts or the failure
to act, including, but not limited to,
the removal of and failure to replace
the characteristic equipment and
furnishings; or (3) The cessation of
business operations for two (2)
years or more unless the cessation
of business operations was caused
by factors out of the control of the
business such as the disability or illness of the proprietor or governmental
action
unrelated
to
the
behavior of the business.
5. Section 352.08 through 352.12
which states that a ten foot wide
landscaped transition strip providing 75% year round opacity is
required at the rear of the property
where it abuts a residential district.
6. Section 343.23(h) which states
that in a Pedestrian Retail Overlay
District for any nonresidential building or storefront facing a Pedestrian Retail Street Frontage, not less
than sixty percent (60%) of the
front facade between two and onehalf (2-1/2) and seven and one-half
(7-1/2) feet in height shall be composed of transparent windows or
doors. (Filed February 4, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-53: 3850 West 20th
Street (Ward 12)
K.I.S.S. Foundation, owner, proposes to establish use as a two story
“sober living” boarding house for 11
residents on a 3,150 square foot lot
in a B1 Multi-Family Residential
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(b) which states
that in a ‘B’ Area District the maximum
gross
floor
area
cannot

404

April 1, 2015
exceed one-half the lot area which
in this case is 1,575 square feet and
2,460 square feet are proposed.
2. Section 349.04(a) which states
that the required accessory offstreet parking is required at the
rate of one space per four occupants.
In this case 3 spaces are required
and no legally compliant parking
spaces are proposed.
3. Section 357.13(b) which states
that parking is not a permitted
encroachment in the required front
yard setback area.
4.
Section
357.09(b)(2)(C)(4)
which states that an interior side
yard of eight feet is required and a
setback from the alley line of three
feet is required.
5.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that a 20 foot rear yard is
required and no rear yard is proposed. (Filed March 6, 2015)
Calendar No. 15-54: 6202 Saint Clair
Avenue (Ward 7)
St. Martin de Porres High School,
owner, proposes to erect a 3 story,
66,708 square foot ‘L’ shaped addition in a C1 Local Retail Business
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the strict application of
Section 353.01 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
the
maximum
building
height
allowed is 35 feet and 45 feet 8 inches are proposed. (Filed March 10,
2015)
Calendar No. 15-55: 2472 Tremont
Avenue (Ward 3)
Civic Builders, owner, proposes to
erect a 55' x 46', 3 story frame triangular
single
family
residence
with an attached garage in a C1
General Retail Business District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the required front yard setback
is 16' – 9" and 3 feet are proposed.
2.
Section
357.08(2)(3)
which
states that the required rear yard
shall not be less than 10 feet at any
point and 6 are proposed.
3. Section 357.09(2)(C)(3) which
states the required interior side
yard is 8 feet and 8 feet, applicant
is proposing 7 feet and 5 feet.
4. Section 357.13 which states that
a
chimney
is
not
a
permitted
encroachment
into
the
required
front yard setback. (Filed March 13,
2015)
Calendar No. 15-57: 3047 West 47th
Street (Ward 3)
Christopher Flynn, owner, proposes to erect a four foot high chain
link fence in the front yard of a residence in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District.
Per
section
358.04(c)(1) in Residential Districts,
only ornamental fences, shall be
installed in actual front yards and
in actual side street yards if located within four (4) feet of the side
street property line. The Board of
Zoning Appeals may, however, permit a chain link fence if the Board
determines that such fence is common in the immediate vicinity of the
subject property. (Filed March 20,
2015)
Calendar No. 15-58: 3051 West 47th
Street (Ward 3)
Christopher Flynn, owner, proposes to erect a four foot high chain
link fence in the front yard of a

The City Record

April 1, 2015
vacant lot in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District.
Per
section
358.04(c)(1) in Residential Districts,
only ornamental fences, shall be
installed in actual front yards and
in actual side street yards if located within four (4) feet of the side
street property line. The Board of
Zoning Appeals may, however, permit a chain link fence if the Board
determines that such fence is common in the immediate vicinity of the
subject property. (Filed March 20,
2015)

25

high telecommunications tower and
an 11' - 6" x 26' equipment shelter
on a parcel that is located in three
different zoning districts: an A1 One
Family Residential District, a B1
Two Family Residential District
and a B3 General Industry District.
Calendar No. 15-37: 1601 East 118th
Street
118 Development, LLC., owner,
proposes to construct 4 separate
apartment dwelling units on one lot
in a C1 General Retail Business District.

POSTPONED FROM MARCH 2, 2015
Calendar No. 14-227: 5437 Broadway
Avenue
(aka
3328
East
55th
Street)(Ward 5)
4 Ever Social Club, owner, proposes to establish use as a banquet
hall for weddings, receptions, and
other events in a C2 Local Retail
Business
District.
The
owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 343.11(b)(2)(L) which
states that an assembly/banquet
hall is not permitted in the Local
Retail Business District but is first
permitted in General Retail Business.
2. Section 349.04(e) which states
that a parking area equal to three
times
the
gross
floor
area
is
required and no parking is shown.
(Filed November 13, 2014)
Third postponement made at the
request of the City to allow for more
time for review. (second postponement made at the request of the
appellant due to a personal scheduling conflict; first postponement
was made at the request of Slavic
Village Development Corporation to
allow for more time for review).
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2015
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
30, 2015 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 15-33: 420 through 630
Prospect & 601 through 611 Huron
Avenue
Gateway Huron, LLC., owner, proposes to construct an approximately
650 foot tall, 54 story building with
885,749 square foot residential/hotel
floor area, 119,332 square foot retail
area and 492,684 square foot parking
area; connected to a second proposed
25 story building up to 350 feet tall
with approximately 244,000 square
feet of office area, 16,853 square foot
retail area, and 257,600 square feet
of parking area, both on a 130,075
square foot lot in an E5 General
Retail Business District and SemiIndustry District.
Calendar No. 15-34: 3926 Valley Road
Valley
Road
Properties,
Inc.,
owner, proposes to erect a 160 foot

Calendar No. 15-41: 1545-1549 Superior Avenue
Amsdell Storage Ventures XVIII,
owner, proposes to construct a parking lot and a loading dock on a parcel located in an E5 Semi-Industry
District.
Calendar No. 15-43: 10001 Chester
Avenue
Innova
Phase
One
Associates,
owner, proposes to display two, temporary 14' x 31' real estate sign
banners in an F3 Local Retail Business District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 14-245: 4100 Pearl Road
Mathile Saad, owner, proposes to
change use to office and storage of
motor vehicles and erect 100 linear
feet of six foot high wood fence and
gate in a C3 Local Retail Business
District and a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 14-244: 4808 Pearl Road
Ashley Pickles, owner, proposes to
erect a 24' x 48' wood frame canopy
to be used for painting building
material in a Local Retail Business
District.
The following appeal was POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 15-38: 9915 St.
Avenue.
Inter City Investors Inc.
poned to June 1, 2015.

Clair
Post-

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

405

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
File No. 46-15 — Food, Food Products, Beverages, Condiments and
Paper Products at Camp Forbes,
for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 162514, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 9,
2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015 AT
10:30 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF RECREATION, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
8
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
ROOM
44114.
File No. 47-15 — 2015 Summer Food
Program (Breakfast & Lunches),
for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 162514, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 9,
2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING

The City Record

26
THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF RECREATION, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
ROOM
8
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
March 25, 2015 and April 1, 2015
FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015
File No. 48-15 — Purchase of Labor
and Materials to Refurbish and
Repair of Water Pumps Including, Controls and Appurtenances,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 803-14,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, July 16, 2014.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
2ND FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 49-15 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Test, Inspect,
Maintain, Repair, Enhance or
Replace Electronic System, for
the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1340-13,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, November 11, 2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 2015 AT
10:00 A.M. JULIUS CIACCIA, JR.
IT CENTER, 2ND FLOOR CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1230
CHARDON ROAD, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44117.
March 25, 2015 and April 1, 2015

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 286-15.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution urging
the U.S. Congress to pass the Marketplace Fairness Act of 2015 which
requires online retailers to charge
and collect sales tax just as brick-andmortar retailers must do.
Whereas, the Marketplace Fairness Act of 2015 will close the loophole that gives an unfair advantage
to online retailers by allowing them
to avoid charging and collecting
sales tax in states where they do
not have a warehouse or other physical presence; and
Whereas,
this
exception
gives
online sellers, like Amazon.com and
eBay.com a 7-8 percent price advantage over brick-and-mortar stores
that must charge sales tax; and
Whereas, the loophole also gives
consumers the wrong impression
that their online purchases are “tax
free”, while in reality, people in
Ohio are to keep track of online
sales, figure the sales tax and pay
it along with their state income
taxes; and
Whereas, brick-and-mortar retailers are not only forced to compete
against the online retailer that doesn’t charge a sales tax, they also
must pay higher property taxes and

higher sales taxes as a result of the
eroding tax base; and
Whereas,
U.S.
lawmakers
are
beginning to understand that it is
imperative to level the playing field
because brick-and-mortar retailers
are struggling to survive as more
people purchase goods online and
there are now more online sales
than there are department store
sales; and
Whereas, it is estimated that Ohio
lost “tens of millions of dollars in
uncollected
tax
revenue
from
Ohioans who bought their 2014 holiday gifts from online sellers”; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the U.S. Congress to pass the Marketplace Fairness Act of 2015 which
requires online retailers to charge
and collect sales tax just as brick-andmortar retailers must do.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to all members of
the United States Congress.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Res. No. 335-15.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of stock of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to 3980 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a transfer of stock
of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at E.
40th Marathon, Inc., 3980 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 23852770005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public

406

April 1, 2015
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a transfer of
stock of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at
E. 40th Marathon, Inc., 3980 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 23852770005, and
requests the Superintendent of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Res. No. 336-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of stock of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit to 4310-12
Clark Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a transfer of stock
of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit
at E J Tavern, Inc., DBA Romeos,
4310-12 Clark Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 2389493; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and

April 1, 2015
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a transfer of
stock of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit at E J Tavern, Inc., DBA
Romeos, 4310-12 Clark Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 2389493,
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Res. No. 337-15.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 6508-10 Lansing
Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit from Lansing Tavern, Inc.,
6508-10 Lansing Avenue, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 5022740 to World
Transfers, LLC, DBA Selias Bar &
Grille, 6508-10 Lansing Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 9787450;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and

The City Record
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from
Lansing Tavern, Inc., 6508-10 Lansing
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 5022740 to World Transfers,
LLC, DBA Selias Bar & Grille, 6508-10
Lansing Avenue, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 9787450; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Res. No. 338-15.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit at
1503 Spring Road, 1st floor and repealing Resolution No. 1642-14, objecting
to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to Marwan, Ohio,
LLC, 1503 Spring Road, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 5597480 by Resolution No.
1642-14 adopted by the Council on
December 8, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above

407

27
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit to Marwan, Ohio, LLC, 1503
Spring Road, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
5597480, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 164214, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Res. No. 339-15.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
location of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit at 2044 Euclid Avenue
and repealing Resolution No 1640-14,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of location of a D2,
D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
Shiva Shakti One Corp., DBA Bombay Chaat, 2044 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
No. 8900470 by Resolution No. 164014 adopted by the Council on December 8, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit to Shiva Shakti One Corp., DBA Bombay Chaat, 2044
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115,
Permanent No. 8900470, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1640-14, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

28
Res. No. 340-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pruitt, Reed, K. Johnson, Cleveland,
Mitchell, Dow, Polensek, Conwell, J.
Johnson, Brady, Brancatelli, Kelley,
Cummins, Zone, Kazy and Keane.
An emergency resolution urging
the El Paso Processing Center, U. S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Immigration Court to grant
the stay of removal of Mrs. Erika Flores Cortes, and release her from
detention under bond to return to her
home and family in Painesville, Ohio.
Whereas, this Council supports
Erika Flores Cortes, of Painesville,
Ohio, who has been held in an immigrant detention center in El Paso,
Texas, since January 19, 2015; and
Whereas, Mrs. Flores Cortes was
detained while attempting to return
to the United States after making
the decision to see her mother in
Mexico, who is very ill and near
death after suffering a stroke; and
Whereas, Mrs. Flores Cortes is the
married
mother
of
four
United
States Citizen children, ages 4 to 15
years old, who are being cared for
by their dad, who works full time,
and with some support from family
and friends; and
Whereas, there is no substitute for
their mother, and she is especially
needed so that she can remain
actively involved in the care and
special education of their 15-year-old
son, Milton, who is learning disabled; and
Whereas, this Council understands
the complexity of the immigration
system and urgent need for reform,
and thus respectfully asks for mercy
for this family; and
Whereas, Mrs. Flores Cortes has
been in the United States for 16
years with no criminal convictions
nor even traffic citations;
Whereas, she entered legally in
1999 with a work visa, the year she
and her husband married, and her
husband has resided in the United
States for 22 years; and
Whereas, together, they own their
home in Painesville, pay property
taxes and have filed income taxes
for the past 13 years; and
Whereas, we respectfully request
that the El Paso Processing Center
and Immigration Court grant Mrs.
Flores Cortes a stay of removal,
release her under bond if needed,
and grant her deferred action so
that she can continue to care for her
four minor children; and
Whereas, this Council supports
this critical humanitarian gesture
which will ensure Mrs. Cortes’ family proper care and health; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the El Paso Processing Center, U. S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Immigration Court to grant
the stay of removal of Mrs. Erika Flores Cortes, and release her from
detention under bond to return to her
home and family in Painesville, Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
resolution
to
Veronica
Isabel
Dahlberg, Executive Director, HOLA
Ohio.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Res. No. 342-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution declaring
the month of September 2015 Cancer
Awareness Month in Cleveland, and
establishing
an
annual
Cancer
Awareness event, in partnership with
the Department of Health, to promote
cancer prevention and education.
Whereas, September is Cancer
Awareness Month nationally for
childhood cancer, gynecological cancer,
leukemia/lymphoma,
ovarian
cancer, prostate cancer, and thyroid
cancer; and
Whereas,
many
other
Cancer
Awareness
Months
are
observed
throughout the year for other types
of cancers; and
Whereas, this Council, in partnership with the Department of Health,
desires to promote cancer prevention
and education for all types of cancer by declaring September 2015
Cancer Awareness Month, and establishing an annual event in the City
Hall Rotunda to promote cancer prevention and education; and
Whereas, the purpose of the event
is to educate the community about
cancer prevention and treatment
through an interactive health fair
with
community
health
care
providers and partners; and
Whereas, the event will include
speakers, healthy cooking demonstrations, early detection screenings,
information panels, vendors, samples, and free health screenings, all
related to cancer prevention and
treatment; and
Whereas, many of Cleveland’s
families and communities are directly or indirectly affected by cancer
and will benefit from this annual
event; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
1.
That
this
Council
Section
declares the month of September 2015
Cancer Awareness Month in Cleveland, and establishes an annual Cancer Awareness event, in partnership
with the Department of Health, to promote cancer prevention and education.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

408

April 1, 2015
Res. No. 343-15.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution supporting the application of the Cleveland
Montessori School and the Alta House
Foundation to the Ohio Office of
Strategic Business Investments for
Ohio Historic Preservation Tax Credits for redevelopment of the Alta
House building located at 12510 Mayfield Road in Little Italy.
Whereas,
the
State
of
Ohio
through the Office of Strategic Business Investments allocates Ohio Historic Preservation Tax Credits for
historic
redevelopment
projects
throughout Ohio using a competitive
proposal process; and
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council has recognized the need to maintain historic buildings in Cleveland’s neighborhoods; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Montessori School and the Alta House
Foundation desire to rehabilitate
the historic Alta House building in
Little Italy for use as a school and
community center; and
Whereas, both the Alta House and
Cleveland Montessori School have
long been anchors in the Little Italy
neighborhood, and bringing the Alta
House building back to life as a
school and community center will
encourage families to remain in, and
relocate to, Little Italy; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
supports the redevelopment of the
Alta House building by the joint
efforts of the Cleveland Montessori
School and the Alta House Foundation as a high priority initiative for
future development in the Little
Italy neighborhood for the benefit
the community and citizens of the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the application of the Cleveland
Montessori School and the Alta House
Foundation to the Ohio Office of
Strategic Business Investments for
Ohio Historic Preservation Tax Credits for the Alta House building located at 12510 Mayfield Road in Little
Italy.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit a certified copy of this resolution to Tina
Schneider, Executive Director, Cleveland Montessori.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 80-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more Concession
Agreements for the operation of concession stands at Gordon Park and

The City Record

April 1, 2015
Brookside Park, for the Department
of Public Works, for a period not to
exceed three years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Public

29

Works is authorized to enter into one
or more Concession Agreements on
the basis of competitive proposals for
the operation of concession stands at
Gordon Park and Brookside Park.
The selection of the concessionaire or
concessionaires shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Works. The
concession fee to be paid to the City
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
Each Concession Agreement shall not
exceed a term of three years.

Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 110-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of all
municipal departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2015 until December 31, 2015.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Five Hundred Forty Two Million, Three Hundred Thirty Thousand, Seven Hundred Eighty-Six Dollars ($542,330,786) from the General Fund;
The sum of Eighty Eight Million, One Hundred Twenty Nine Thousand, Seven Dollars ($88,129,007) from the
Special Revenue Funds;
The sum of Ninety Four Million, Eight Hundred Twenty Nine Thousand, One Hundred Eighty Two Dollars
($94,829,182) from the Internal Service Funds;
The sum of Seven Hundred Forty Million, Eight Hundred Forty Eight Thousand, Fifty One Dollars ($740,848,051)
from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Eleven Million, Three Hundred Fifty Four Thousand, Four Hundred Eighty Three Dollars
($11,354,483) from the Trust and Agency Funds;
The sum of Sixty Six Million, Seven Hundred Sixty Seven Thousand, Two Hundred Seven Dollars ($66,767,207)
from the Debt Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor's Estimate on file with Council and identified in the aggregate amount for each
department as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
General Government
Department of Aging
Department of Human Resources
Department of Law
Department of Finance
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Public Works
Department of Community Development
Department of Building and Housing
Department of Economic Development
Nondepartmental

$

7,265,808
38,308,737

14,567,785
1,111,748
2,163,005
12,828,086
16,592,095
6,417,502
307,234,482
67,146,612
290,808
9,936,724
1,692,618
56,774,776
———————
496,756,241
———————
———————

Total Executive Branch
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

542,330,786
———————
———————
88,129,007
94,829,182
740,848,051
11,354,483
66,767,207
———————
———————

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2015

$1,544,258,716

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

7,265,808

5,235,879
2,029,929
———————
$
7,265,808
———————
———————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

409

The City Record

30

April 1, 2015

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

20,118,579
2,699,797

Municipal Court - Clerk's Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

9,590,205
2,048,050

Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,713,834
138,272

$

22,818,376

$

11,638,255

$

3,852,106

———————
$
38,308,737
———————
———————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,605,479
118,502

Office of Capital Projects
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

4,876,765
521,075

Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

192,797
12,039

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

126,814
9,581

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

213,377
15,924

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

635,635
390,728

Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,358,170
112,071

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,547,377
110,410

Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Office of Budget & Management Budget Admistration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,723,981

$

5,397,840

$

204,836

$

136,395

$

229,301

$

1,026,363

$

1,470,241

$

1,657,787

$

6,088

$

815,096

$

899,857

$ 6,088

$

796,225
18,871

$

865,161
34,696
———————
$ 14,567,785
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,111,748

846,554
265,194
———————
$
1,111,748
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

410

April 1, 2015

The City Record

31

DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES
Department of Human Resources
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 2,163,005
$

1,417,131
745,874
———————
$ 2,163,005
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Department of Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

12,828,086

6,784,766
6,043,320
———————
$
12,828,086
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,066,316
354,840

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,376,094
688,634

$

2,249,741
1,425,505

$

652,516
103,268

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

653,977
40,642

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

639,162
633,549

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,382,898
24,962

Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,753,567
2,546,424

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,421,156

$

2,064,728

$

3,675,246

$

755,784

$

694,619

$

1,272,711

$

1,407,860

$

5,299,991

———————
$
16,592,095
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

828,878
361,355

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,033,664
1,705,166

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

850,581
231,266

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

128,077
278,515

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

411

$

1,190,233

$

3,738,830

$

1,081,847

$

406,592

———————
$
6,417,502
———————
———————

32

The City Record

April 1, 2015

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

5,702,948

4,250,086
1,452,862
$ 177,430,498

$ 167,935,020
9,495,478

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

80,622,278
3,975,234

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

21,933,220
2,719,103

Division of Animal Care and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,145,210
361,748

Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

9,817,466
3,526,777

$

84,597,512

$

24,652,323

$

1,506,958

$

13,344,243

———————
$ 307,234,482
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Public Works Administration
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,945,069
263,597

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

8,081,047
4,089,793

Division of Parking Facilities - On Street
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,210,050
66,475

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,640,171
2,123,692

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

8,957,971
5,423,545

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

14,014,570
10,787,942

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,723,454
819,236

$

3,208,666

$

12,170,840

$

1,276,525

$

7,763,863

$

14,381,516

$

24,802,512

$

3,542,690

———————
$
67,146,612
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Division of Consumer Affairs
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

290,808

275,866
14,942

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

———————
$
290,808
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Director’s Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

412

$
$

1,751,274
465,411

2,216,685

The City Record

April 1, 2015

33

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,959,770
192,830

Division of Construction Permitting
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,541,796
25,643

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

$

6,152,600

$

1,567,439

———————
$
9,936,724
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,692,618

1,671,505
21,113

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

———————
$
1,692,618
———————
———————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,080,000

Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses

$

21,520,776

Transfers to Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

$

34,174,000

$

1,080,000

$

21,520,776

$

34,174,000

———————
$
56,774,776
———————
———————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$ 496,756,241
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$ 542,330,786
———————
———————
SPECIAL REVENUE FUND

Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
Capital
II.
Debt Service

$

37,600,521

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

14,713,141
12,441,757

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$

$

37,600,521

$

27,154,898

$

1,175,000

$

22,198,588

1,175,000

Division of Public Auditorium & Stadium-Stadium
II.
Other Expenses
$ 22,198,588

———————
$
88,129,007
———————
———————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

258,932
505,170

$

1,414,394
5,789,862

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

5,371,175
11,885,651

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

840,843
1,603,188

Information Systems Services-Telephone
Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

413

$

764,102

$

7,204,256

$

17,256,826

$

2,444,031

The City Record

34

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

April 1, 2015
$

124,113
464,712

Health Self Insurance
II.
Other Expenses

$

53,745,142

Prescription Self Insurance
II.
Other Expenses

$

12,826,000

$

588,825

$

53,745,142

$

12,826,000

———————
$
94,829,182
———————
———————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

4,365,172
1,055,185

$

588,589
2,850,487

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,206,053
712,469

Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

84,239,422
245,702,169

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

12,119,346
14,422,425

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

26,011,644
176,241,453

Radio
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$

5,420,357

$

3,439,076

$

5,918,522

$ 329,941,591

$

26,541,771

$ 202,253,097

———————
$ 573,514,414
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions
Airports I.
II.

of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
Operations
Personnel and Related Expenses
$ 32,591,430
Other Expenses
120,108,570

$ 152,700,000

———————
$ 152,700,000
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Cemeteries
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

Golf Course Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,348,644
7,534,527

Division of Public Auditorium
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,304,231
1,281,161

$

443,987
914,130

414

1,716,308

$

50,649

$

8,883,171

$

2,585,392

$

1,358,117

$ 7,649
43,000

Division of Parking Facilities - Off Street Parking
$
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

Division of Public Auditorium & Stadium West Side Market
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
1,259,553
456,755

The City Record

April 1, 2015

35

Division of Property Management East Side Market
II.
Other Expenses

$

40,000

$ 40,000
———————
$
14,633,637
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$ 740,848,051
———————
———————
AGENCY FUND

Central Collection Agency
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

11,354,483

7,341,413
4,013,070
———————
$
11,354,483
———————
———————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

DEBT SERVICE FUND
$

Sinking Fund Commission
III.
Debt Service

$

66,767,207

66,767,207
———————
$
66,767,207
———————
———————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the Mayor's
Estimate, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for I. - Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. - Other Expenses and are not severally and individually appropriated in
said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 2014 is hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 2015 or prior years. The Mayor's
Estimate, File No. 110-15-A, as modified by the schedule published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter shall
within the sums appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure budget for the year 2015 and shall
be subject to the control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer from I. - Personnel and Related Expenses, or II. - Other Expenses within any department or office, or from one department or office to another shall be
made except as provided in Section 41 of the Charter.
Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury for the
amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of the
department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed by
law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 111-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 1030-14, passed November 24, 2014, relating to sewerage service rates.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules, and regulations of the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, for sewerage services, fixed by the Board of Control by Resolution No. _______, adopted ________, are
approved.
Section 2. That Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1030-14, passed November 24, 2014, is amended to read as follows:
Section 543.02 Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland
(a) Regular and Homestead Rates.
Sewer Rate Schedule
Regular Rates
Minimum Charge
1st MCF

$12.53
$12.53

Homestead Rates
Minimum Charge
1st MCF

$7.43
$7.43

415

The City Record

36

April 1, 2015

(b) Special Homestead Rate. Homesteads that are single family residential property owned and occupied by a
person sixty-five (65) years of age or older whose total annual income does not exceed the limits listed below
or homesteads that are single family residential property owned and occupied by a person permanently and totally disabled whose total annual income does not exceed the limits listed below may be eligible for the special
homestead rate. The Director of Public Utilities shall prescribe the application form for the homestead rates and
have final approval of all applications.
Income Limits:
Year

Total Annual Income

2014
$31,500
2015
$32,000
(c) Fixed Charge Based Upon Meter Size
2015
1/2" to 1"
1 1/2” to 2"
3" to 4"
6"
8"
12"
Homestead

2016

2017

2018

2019

$12.00
$30.00
$99.00
$198.00
$300.00
$450.00

$12.00
$30.00
$99.00
$198.00
$300.00
$450.00

$15.00
$40.00
$115.00
$225.00
$325.00
$500.00

$15.00
$40.00
$115.00
$225.00
$325.00
$500.00

$18.00
$55.00
$140.00
$260.00
$370.00
$550.00

$7.20

$7.20

$9.00

$9.00

$10.80

(d) The sewerage service charges within the City shall be increased to meet the funding requirements of the
Ohio Water Development Authority.
(e) Nothing contained in this section shall be held to authorize or require the payment of any sewer rental
charge by any tax-supported department of the City.
(f) Except for 2015 rates, which shall be effective on April 1, 2015, all rates shall be effective on January 1 of
each year.
Section 3. That Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1030-14, passed November 24, 2014, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 117-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of rock salt, for
the Division of Streets, Department of
Public Works, for a period of one
year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the period of one year of the necessary items
of rock salt, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division
of Streets, Department of Public
Works. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation

accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 7016, RL 2015-8)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 182-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into agreements for the Automated Meter Reading System data
collection device fixed locations for

416

collection and transmission within
the Water Division’s service area.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns and operates an Automated
Meter Reading (“AMR”) System for
the benefit of its Water Division’s collection and transmission of water consumption data from customers to
strategically located devices to the
Water Division for various business
purposes including billing and collection; and
Whereas, pursuant to City Contract
No. PS2010-257 with Itron, Inc.
(“Itron”), Itron entered into lease
agreements with third-party property
owners to locate the City’s AMR data
collection devices within the Water
Division’s service area for the collection and transmission of the AMR
information from the meter, to the
device, to the Water Division with the
lease payments and costs incurred
indirectly by the City through the contract funds; and
Whereas,
under
Contract
No.
PS2010-257, the City must accept an
assignment of the Itron-AMR leases
or the City must enter into agreements for similar real property rights
for the current locations of the AMR
collection and transmission devices
in order to maintain, install, or secure
the City’s AMR’s System with Water
Division’s funds not certified to Contract No. PS2010-257; and
Whereas, in order to maintain the
AMR System’s ability to collect and
transmit the data, the City requires
the authority to: 1) assume the rights
and obligations, including the lease

April 1, 2015
payments and costs, of the current
Itron-AMR leases for the remainder of
any existing term; 2) enter into agreements with real property owners
where the devices are currently located on or before the lease expirations;
and 3) enter into agreements with the
real property owners of locations
within the Water Division’s service
area where the location will further
benefit the collection and/or transmission of the AMR data from the customer to the Water Division; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
the necessary agreements with Itron
for the assignment to the City of all
the real property rights and obligations for any existing Itron-AMR
lease or other agreement providing
for the AMR data collection device
location within the Water Division’s
service area.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to acquire
easements, fee interests, rights-ofentry, or any other interest in real
property as is necessary to enhance,
maintain, or secure the collection and
transmission of the AMR data and to
execute on behalf of the City all documents necessary to acquire such property rights; and to pay for all services,
fees, permits, licenses, surveys,
appraiser, title companies, escrows,
consultants and all other necessary
costs for the acquisition of property
rights as needed to enhance, maintain, or secure the data collection and
transmission capacity for the AMR
System.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements, as necessary, for any additional tower site
development, delivery of fixed network equipment to the City, and
installation of fixed network equipment for the data collection and transmission capacity of the AMR System.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
agreements for real property rights
with municipalities or other government entities deemed necessary by
the Director of Public Utilities to
enhance, maintain, or secure the data
collection and transmission capacity
of the AMR System.
Section 5. That the term of the leases or other agreements authorized
under this ordinance shall be determined by the Director of Public Utilities.
Section 6. That the rent and other
costs for the leases or other agreements authorized under this ordinance shall be fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control,
and shall be paid from funds
approved by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Utilities, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the leases or
other agreements authorized in this
ordinance.
Section 8. That the leases or other
agreements authorized under this
ordinance shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain any
terms and conditions as are required
to protect the interests of the City.

The City Record
Section 9. That the rent or other
costs or expenses arising from the
agreements authorized in this ordinance shall be paid from Fund No. 52
SF 001, RQS-2002, RL 2015-24.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 184-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 129.37 relating to uniforms and equipment for security officers in the Department of Public Utilities; maintenance allowance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 129.37 to read as follows:
Section 129.37 Uniforms and Equipment for Security Officers in the
Department of Public Utilities; Maintenance Allowance
(a) The Director of Public Utilities
is authorized in the manner prescribed by the Charter to enter into
one or more requirement contracts, or
such other contracts as may be necessary for the furnishing of the necessary equipment, uniforms, and parts
thereof for the Department of Public
Utility security officers during each
year, chargeable to the appropriation
annually made for such purpose.
(b) The Director of Public Utilities
is authorized to issue purchase requisition to the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, against any
requirements or other contract, for
uniforms for security officers located
in the Department of Public Utilities
for which a collective bargaining
agreement establishes a uniform
allowance, in the amount established
in the applicable agreements.
(c) In addition, the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to issue purchase requisitions to the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, against
any requirements or other contract,
for an annual uniform allowance for
these uniformed employees in supervisory positions not covered under a
collective bargaining agreement.
The uniform allowance shall be in the
same amount as the amount established by the collective bargaining
agreement determined by the Director to be most closely related to the
supervisory position.
(d) The Director of Public Utilities
is authorized to cause payment for a
uniform maintenance allowance to
security officers in the Department of
Public Utilities for which the applicable collective bargaining agreement
establishes a maintenance allowance,
in the amount established in the
agreements.

417

37
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 188-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Keane
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. RC 2013-80 with Aggregate Construction Inc to provide for
the rental of large capacity trucks
with operators.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1694-12, passed February 11, 2013, the Director of Public
Works entered into Contract No. RC
2013-80 with Aggregate Construction
Inc to provide for the rental of large
capacity trucks with operators; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1694-12
requires further legislation before
exercising the second option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to exercise
the second option to renew Contract
No. RC 2013-80 for an additional year
in the approximate amount of
$410,000, with Aggregate Construction Inc for the requirements for an
additional year of the rental of large
capacity trucks with operators. This
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 1694-12 to exercise this
option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 191-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
employ one or more professional consultants to provide armed security
services at various indoor and outdoor recreation facilities, including
but not limited to, outdoor pools,
recreation centers, and various surrounding play areas, for a period not
to exceed one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

38
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide armed security services at various indoor and outdoor recreation
facilities, including but not limited to,
outdoor pools, recreation centers, and
various surrounding play areas, for a
period not to exceed one year.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Works from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Works for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Works, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 01-7004-6380,
Request No. RQS 7004, RL 2015-6.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 219-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City to purchase electricity
from an electric generation services
provider for all City buildings serviced by the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and to participate
with the Cleveland Municipal School
District in a joint Request for Proposals to procure such services for a period up to three years, with two oneyear options to renew, exercisable by
the Director of Finance; and authorizing an agreement with Palmer Energy Company for energy consulting
services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one or
more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, with an electric generation services provider for
the purchase of electricity for all City
buildings serviced by the Cleveland
Electric Illuminating Company at
prices obtained through the joint procurement with the Cleveland Municipal School District for a period up to
three years, with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Finance.
The selection of the electric generation services provider shall be made

The City Record
by the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Finance. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Palmer Energy for
energy consulting services in an
amount not to exceed $15,000 and to
sign all documents necessary to make
the payment.
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized and the
payment to Palmer Energy shall be
paid from Fund No. 01 SF 001, and
from the fund or funds appropriated
for this purpose. Request No. RQN
1505, RL 2015-11.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 222-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
Youth Opportunities Unlimited for
the administration, implementation,
and management of the Cleveland
Youth Summer Employment Program
and authorizing one or more contracts
with public agencies to implement the
Youth Summer Employment Program, for a period of one year, with a
one-year option to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Youth
Opportunities Unlimited for the
administration, implementation, and
management of the Cleveland Youth
Summer
Employment
Program,
which include various projects for a
period of one year, with a one-year
option to renew exercisable by the
Director of Public Utilities. If
arranged by the Director of Public
Utilities through negotiations with
suburban communities, then youth
summer employment opportunities
may include activities in those communities.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with public
agencies to implement the Youth
Summer Employment Program which
include various projects for a period
of one year, with one option to renew

418

April 1, 2015
for an additional one year period,
exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001 and 54
SF 001, Request No. RQS 2002, RL
2015-18.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 223-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
employ one or more professional consultants to assess, recommend, and
procure fire and extended real and
personal property insurance including loss control services, risk management program development, and
other related services for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power’s major
facilities, including 1300 Lakeside
Avenue, for a period of up to two
years with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
assess, recommend, and procure fire
and extended real and personal property insurance including loss control
services, risk management program
development, and other related services for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power’s major facilities,
including 1300 Lakeside Avenue, for a
period of up to two years with two
one-year options to renew. The first of
the one-year options to renew may not
be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional
legislative authority is granted and
the first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second of
the one-year options to renew may be
exercisable at the option of the Director of Public Utilities, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control
and may include the cost of the insurance premium, loss control services

April 1, 2015
and other costs incurred by the consultant on the City’s behalf. The contract or contracts authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Utilities, and certified by the Director
of Finance. The Director of Public
Utilities shall notify the Council of
the insurance broker selected by the
Board of Control under this ordinance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 58 SF 001, Request
No. RQS 2004, RL 2015-25.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 224-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services
needed to repair, replace, and maintain the high-voltage static transmission pipe-type cable system components and for emergency oil spill
cleanup, including labor and installation, if necessary, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a twoyear period with two one-year options
to renew of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services needed to repair, replace, and
maintain the high-voltage static
transmission pipe-type cable system
components and for emergency oil
spill cleanup, including labor and
installation, if necessary, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities. The first of the one-year options
to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative authority.
If such additional legislative authority is granted and the first of the oneyear options to renew is exercised,
then the second of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Public
Utilities, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of this
Council. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by

The City Record
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 2004, RL 2015-5)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 331-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Public Health to enter into an agreement with the Cleveland Clinic:
Minority Men’s Health Center for the
Minority Men’s Health and Community Health Educational Event through
the use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Health is authorized to enter into an agreement effective April 30, 2015 with the Cleveland
Clinic: Minority Men’s Health Center
for the Minority’s Men’s Health and
Community Health Education Event
for the public purpose of educating
city of Cleveland residents on disease
prevention and maintaining good
health through the use of Ward 9
Casino Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

419

39
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 332-15.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Economic Development to enter into
an agreement with Mac’s Sports Grill
LLC for exterior roofing improvements to the property to promote economic development through the use of
Ward 1 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development is hereby authorized to enter
into an agreement with Mac’s Sports
Grill LLC located at 17426 Harvard
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio for exterior
roofing improvements to the property
for the public purpose of promoting
economic development and new job
creation through the use of Ward 1
Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 333-15.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with Campus District,
Inc. for the Campus District Community Dialogue Program through the
use of Wards 5 and 7 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Campus District Inc.,
for the Campus District Community
Dialogue Program for the public purpose of conducting a series of dialogue discussions with neighborhood
and community stakeholders in the
city of Cleveland to develop a master
plan for the Campus District through
the use of Ward(s) 5 and 7 Casino
Revenue Funds.

The City Record

40
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $15,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

Ord. No. 334-15.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Aging to enter into an agreement
with Court Community Service for the
Senior Lawn Care Program through
the use of Ward 1 Casino Revenue
Funds.

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Aging be authorized to
enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior
Lawn Care Program for the public
purpose of assisting senior citizens
residing in the city of Cleveland with
grass cutting and lawn maintenance
care through the use of Ward 1 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $22,500 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval

April 1, 2015
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 23, 2015.
Effective March 25, 2015.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, March 30, 2015
11:00 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Mitchell, Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins. Authorized
Absence: J. Johnson.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane,
Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
Wednesday, April 1, 2015
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee: Present: Zone,
Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair; Cimperman,
Kazy,
Keane,
Mitchell,
Polensek.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance — Court Community
Service (O 334-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420

Agreements
Campus District Community Dialogue Program — Campus District, Inc. — Community
Development (Ward(s) 05, 07 CRF) (O 333-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission’s Urban Youth Recreation Initiative — Greater
Cleveland Sports Commission — Community Development (Ward 17 NEF) (O 357-15) .
Mac’s Sports Grill LLC — exterior roofing improvements — Economic Development
(Ward 01 CRF) (O 332-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minority Men’s Health and Community Health Educational Event — disease prevention
and health — Cleveland Clinic: Minority Men’s Health Center — Cleveland Clinic
Foundation — Health Department (Ward 09 CRF) (O 331-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ProCop House Project — Community Service Alliance — Community Development
(Ward 14 CRF) (O 358-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance — Court Community
Service — Aging Department (O 334-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420

AIDS
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, (2015) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXI —
Community Development Department — Grants (O 76-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Appropriations
Appropriations -Year 2015 — current expenses and other expenses — Finance Department
(O 110-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 409

Banners
Burten, Bell Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. and Scovill Ave. — May 27 to
June 26 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — Capital Projects Office (Ward
05) (O 356-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

420

April 1, 2015

The City Record

41

Board of Control — Emergency Medical Service Division
Computer Aided Dispatch System software maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Intergraph
Corporation — Divisions of Police, Fire, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 97-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393

Board of Control — Finance Department
Accela GIS Program maintenance and tech support — per C.O. Sec. 181.102(b) to TruePoint
Solutions, LLC (BOC Res. 89-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392
Updating indirect cost allocation plan — per Ord. 1131-14 to Fiscal Choice Consulting,
LLC (BOC Res. 90-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392

Board of Control — Fire Division
Computer Aided Dispatch System software maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Intergraph
Corporation — Divisions of Police, EMS, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 97-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393

Board of Control — Police Division
Computer Aided Dispatch System software maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Intergraph
Corporation — Divisions of Fire, EMS, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 97-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Accela GIS Program maintenance and tech support — per C.O. Sec. 181.102(b) to TruePoint
Solutions, LLC — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 89-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392
Computer Aided Dispatch System software maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Intergraph
Corporation — Divisions of Police, Fire, EMS, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 97-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393
Updating indirect cost allocation plan — per Ord. 1131-14 to Fiscal Choice Consulting,
LLC — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 90-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Computer Aided Dispatch System software maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Intergraph
Corporation — Divisions of Police, Fire, EMS (BOC Res. 97-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Off-road fossil fuel and supporting services, Group 1 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101
to Universal Oil Inc. (BOC Res. 93-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Off-road fossil fuel and supporting services, Group 2 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101
to O.E. Meyer Co. (BOC Res. 94-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repair and maintenance of catch basin cleaning trucks Group 1 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Best Equipment Co. — Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 92-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repair and maintenance of catch basin cleaning trucks Group 2 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Jack Doheny Companies, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 91-15) . . . .
Repair and maintenance of combination sewer and catch basin cleaning trucks Group 1 — per
C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Jack Doheny Companies, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution
Control (BOC Res. 95-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repair and maintenance of combination sewer and catch basin cleaning trucks Group 2 — per
C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Dreier & Maller, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution
Control (BOC Res. 96-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Off-road fossil fuel and supporting services, Group 1 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101
to Universal Oil Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 93-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Off-road fossil fuel and supporting services, Group 2 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101
to O.E. Meyer Co. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 94-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repair and maintenance of catch basin cleaning trucks Group 1 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Best Equipment Co. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 92-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repair and maintenance of catch basin cleaning trucks Group 2 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Jack Doheny Companies, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 91-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repair and maintenance of combination sewer and catch basin cleaning trucks Group 1 — per
C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Jack Doheny Companies, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution
Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 95-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repair and maintenance of combination sewer and catch basin cleaning trucks Group 2 — per
C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Dreier & Maller, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 96-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Repair and maintenance of catch basin cleaning trucks Group 1 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Best Equipment Co. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 92-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392

421

The City Record

42

April 1, 2015

Repair and maintenance of catch basin cleaning trucks Group 2 — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Jack Doheny Companies, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 91-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392
Repair and maintenance of combination sewer and catch basin cleaning trucks Group 1 — per
C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Jack Doheny Companies, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 95-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393
Repair and maintenance of combination sewer and catch basin cleaning trucks Group 2 — per
C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Dreier & Maller, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 96-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 393

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Chester Avenue, 10001 (Ward 7) — Innova Phase One Associates, owner — appeal heard on
3/30/15 (Cal. 15-43). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 1601 (Ward 9) — 118 Development, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 3/30/15
(Cal. 15-37) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4100 (Ward 13) — Mathile Saad, owner — appeal heard on 3/30/15 (Cal. 14-245) .
Pearl Road, 4808 (Ward 13) — Ashley Pickles, owner — appeal withdrawn on 3/30/15
(Cal. 14-244) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Avenue, 420 through 630 & Huron Avenue, 601 through 611 (Ward 3) — Gateway
Huron, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 3/30/15 (Cal. 15-33) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 9915 (Ward 10) — Inter City Investors Inc., owner — appeal postponed
to 6/1/15 on 3/30/15 (Cal. 15-38). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 1545-1549 (Ward 7) — Amsdell Storage Ventures XVIII, owner —
appeal heard on 3/30/15 (Cal. 15-41) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valley Road, 3926 (Ward 12) — Valley Road Properties, Inc., owner — appeal heard
on 3/30/15 (Cal. 15-34) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Saint Clair Avenue, 6202 (Ward 7) — St. Martin de Porres High School, owner — appeal to
be heard on 4/20/15 (Cal. 15-54) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont Avenue, 2472 (Ward 3) — Civic Builders, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/20/15
(Cal. 15-55) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 20th Street, 2850 (Ward 12) — K.I.S.S. Foundation, owner — appeal to be heard on
4/20/15 (Cal. 15-53). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 3179 (Ward 14) — Woodland Inc. (a.k.a. Ali Farai) — appeal to be heard
on 4/20/15 (Cal. 15-23) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 47th Street, 3047 (Ward 3) — Christopher Flynn, owner — appeal to be heard on
4/20/15 (Cal. 15-57). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 47th Street, 3051 (Ward 3) — Christopher Flynn, owner — appeal to be heard on
4/20/15 (Cal. 15-58). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404

Budget
Appropriations -Year 2015 — current expenses and other expenses — Finance Department
(O 110-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 409

Capital Projects
Amend Ord. 835-14 — East 9th St., Superior Ave., and Walnut Ave. —
encroach into right-of-way — permanent streetscape improvements — 1717 East 9th LLC —
City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 75-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burten, Bell Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. and Scovill Ave. — May 27 to
June 26 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — Banner (Ward 05) (O 356-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Canal Rd. — encroach into right-of-way — fiber-optic communications duct bank — Sherwin —
Williams Company — City Planning Commission (O 112-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dwayne Browder Football Field — renovations, rehabilitation and improvements —
Lonnie Burten Recreation Center — Works Department (Ward 05) (O 353-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 22nd St. reconstruction (Orange Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consent — State of Ohio
(Ward 05) (O 125-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 30th St. and Central Ave. — acquire easements — public sidewalk — Cuyahoga
Metropolitan Housing Authority — Purchases and Supplies Division (Ward 05)
(O 46-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th St., and East 6th St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission
(Ward 03) (R 354-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakefront West Project, constructing (West Shoreway from West Blvd. to West 25th Street,
including the extension of West 73rd Street) — consent — State of Ohio
(Ward 11, 14 and 15) (O 124-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Square — encroach into right - of - way — maintaining various utility facilities,
lines, conduits and streetscape elements — various private utilities and
private entities (Ward 03) (O 352-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triangle Park — Intersections of Lakeshore Blvd., East 174th St., Nottingham Rd. — change
name to “Veteran’s Park” (Ward 08) (O 355-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave. (West of East 89th St. to East 116th St. (Martin Luther King Jr.
Drive) rehabilitation — consent — State of Ohio (Ward 04 and 06) (O 123-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
YMCA Firecracker Run — permit — July 4th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(Ward 03) (O 359-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

422

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

April 1, 2015

The City Record

43

City of Cleveland Bids
Food, Food Products, Beverages, Condiments, and Paper Products at Camp Forbes —
Department of Public Works — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 1625-14 — bid due
April 9, 2015 (advertised 3/25/2015 and 4/1/2015) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Refurbish and repair water pumps including controls and appurtenances — Department
of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 803-14 — bid due April 17, 2015
(advertised 3/25/2015 and 4/1/2015). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Food Program (Breakfast & Lunches) — Department of Public Works — Division
of Recreation — per Ord. 1625-14 — bid due April 9, 2015 (advertised 3/25/2015 and 4/1/2015)
Test, inspect, maintain, repair, enhance or replace Electronic System — Department
of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1340-13 — bid due April 17, 2015
(advertised 3/25/2015 and 4/1/2015). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406

City Planning Commission
Amend Ord. 835-14 — East 9th St., Superior Ave., and Walnut Ave. —
encroach into right-of-way — permanent streetscape improvements — 1717 East 9th LLC
(Ward 03) (O 75-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Canal Rd. — encroach into right-of-way — fiber-optic communications duct bank — Sherwin —
Williams Company — Capital Projects Office (O 112-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th St., and East 6th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office
(Ward 03) (R 354-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stuyvesant Motor Company Building — Prospect Ave., 1937 — PPN 103-03-037 — designate as
landmark — Landmarks Commission (Ward 05) (O 198-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative, 2015 — Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency — Grant (O 351-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triangle Park — Intersections of Lakeshore Blvd., East 174th St., Nottingham Rd. — change
name to “Veteran’s Park” — Capital Projects Office (Ward 08) (O 355-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI)
Electricity joint with CMSD School — Contract with Palmer Energy Company (O 219-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 418

Cleveland Metropolitan School District (CMSD)
Electricity joint with CMSD School — Contract with Palmer Energy Company — CEI (O 219-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 418

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
High-voltage static transmission pipe-type cable system components and for emergency oil
spill cleanup — contracts — Utilities Department (O 224-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
Insurance coverages, fire, extended real and personal property — Utilities
Department (O 223-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 418

Codified Ordinances
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 111-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 415
Uniforms and Equipment for Security Officers; Maintenance Allowance — enact Section 129.37 —
Utilities Department (O 184-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 417

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Longshoreman Association, Local 1317 — approve collective bargaining agreement — amend
Section 19 of Ord. 385-14 — Finance Department — Human Resources
Department (O 265-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Municipal Construction Equipment Operators Labor Council (Water Plant Operators, Stationary
Engineers, Boiler Room Operators) — approve collective bargaining agreement — amend
Section 12 of Ord. 385-14 — Finance Department — Human Resources
Department (O 266-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

Communications
Cash Management and Investment Policy — City Treasury — Finance Department (F 349-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

Community Development
Campus District Community Dialogue Program — Campus District, Inc. — agreement
(Ward(s) 05, 07 CRF) (O 333-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, (2015) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXI —
Grants (O 76-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission’s Urban Youth Recreation Initiative — Greater
Cleveland Sports Commission — agreement (Ward 17 NEF) (O 357-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ProCop House Project — Community Service Alliance — agreement (Ward 14 CRF) (O 358-15).

423

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

The City Record

44

April 1, 2015

Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG)
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, (2015) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXI —
Community Development Department — Grants (O 76-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Concession Agreements
Operation of concession stands at Gordon Park and Brookside Park — Works Department
(O 80-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408

Condolences
Brown, Veria Lee (Tyler) (R 366-15) . . . . . .
Davis, Eva Mae (R 365-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kenniebrew, Rev. Melvin Lamar (R 368-15)
Williams, Sr., Earl W. (R 367-15) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

385
385
385
385

Congratulations
Pavelich, Chief John, University Circle Police Department (R 369-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School Boys Varsity Basketball Team (R 370-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385

Contracts
After School Hot Meal Program, 2015-16 — participate — Children’s Hunger Alliance — Ohio
Department of Education — Works Department (O 190-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automated Meter Reading Program — data collection device fixed locations — agreements —
Water Division — Utilities Department (O 182-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Campus District Community Dialogue Program — Campus District, Inc. — agreement —
Community Development (Ward(s) 05, 07 CRF) (O 333-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program, 2015 — administration, implementation,
and manage — Youth Opportunities Unlimited (O 222-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dwayne Browder Football Field — renovations, rehabilitation and improvements —
Lonnie Burten Recreation Center — Works Department — Capital Projects Office (Ward
05) (O 353-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 75th Street Area Sewer Project — design and construction — amend Ord. 889-12 —
Utilities Department (WPC) (Ward 05) (O 147-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development Department — professional service — evaluate, assess, and remediate
brownfield properties (O 218-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electricity joint with CMSD School — Palmer Energy Company — CEI (O 219-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission’s Urban Youth Recreation Initiative — Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission — agreement — Community Development (Ward 17 NEF) (O 357-15) . . . .
High-voltage static transmission pipe-type cable system components and for emergency oil
spill cleanup — contracts — Cleveland Public Power Division — Utilities Department
(O 224-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance coverages, fire, extended real and personal property — Cleveland Public Power
Division — Utilities Department (O 223-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mac’s Sports Grill LLC — exterior roofing improvements — agreement — Economic
Development (Ward 01 CRF) (O 332-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minority Men’s Health and Community Health Educational Event — disease prevention
and health — Cleveland Clinic: Minority Men’s Health Center — Cleveland Clinic
Foundation — Health Department (Ward 09 CRF) (O 331-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ProCop House Project — Community Service Alliance — agreement — Community
Development (Ward 14 CRF) (O 358-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salt, rock — Streets Division — Works Department (O 117-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security guard services, armed — various recreation facilities — Works Department (O 191-15) . .
Trucks, large capacity with operators — rental of — renew Contract No. RC 2013-80 —
Aggregate Construction Inc. — Works Department (O 188-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniforms and Equipment for Security Officers; Maintenance Allowance — enact
Section 129.37 — Utilities Department (O 184-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 416
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 418

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 418
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 418
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 416
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 417
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 417
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 417

Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (CMHA)
East 30th St. and Central Ave. — acquire easements — public sidewalk — Capital Projects
Office — Purchases and Supplies Division (Ward 05) (O 46-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Easements
East 30th St. and Central Ave. — public sidewalk — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority — Capital Projects Office — Purchases and Supplies Division
(Ward 05) (O 46-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Economic Development Department
Professional service — evaluate, assess, and remediate brownfield properties (O 218-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

424

April 1, 2015

The City Record

45

Mac’s Sports Grill LLC — exterior roofing improvements — agreement
(Ward 01 CRF) (O 332-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

Encroachments
Amend Ord. 835-14 — East 9th St., Superior Ave., and Walnut Ave. — right-of-way — permanent
streetscape improvements — 1717 East 9th LLC — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(O 75-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Canal Rd. — right-of-way — fiber-optic communications duct bank — Sherwin — Williams
Company — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 112-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Public Square — right - of - way — maintaining various utility facilities, lines, conduits
and streetscape elements — various private utilities and private entities — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 352-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386

Finance Department
Appropriations -Year 2015 — current expenses and other expenses (O 110-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cash Management and Investment Policy — City Treasury (F 349-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 30th St. and Central Ave. — acquire easements — public sidewalk — Cuyahoga
Metropolitan Housing Authority — Capital Projects Office — Purchases and Supplies
Division (Ward 05) (O 46-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Longshoreman Association, Local 1317 — approve collective bargaining agreement — amend
Section 19 of Ord. 385-14 — Human Resources Department (O 265-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Municipal Construction Equipment Operators Labor Council (Water Plant Operators, Stationary
Engineers, Boiler Room Operators) — approve collective bargaining agreement — amend
Section 12 of Ord. 385-14 — Human Resources Department (O 266-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications — repeal Ord. 385-14 — Human Resources
Department (O 323-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 409
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

Grants
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, (2015) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXI —
Community Development Department (O 76-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Supporting Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative (TLCI) — To further study
the Big Creek/I-71 Relocation and Restoration Initiative (R 330-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative, 2015 — Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency — City Planning (O 351-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386

Health Department
Cancer Awareness Month, September 2015 (R 342-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408
Minority Men’s Health and Community Health Educational Event — disease prevention
and health — Cleveland Clinic: Minority Men’s Health Center — Cleveland Clinic
Foundation (Ward 09 CRF) (O 331-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

Human Resources Department
Longshoreman Association, Local 1317 — approve collective bargaining agreement — amend
Section 19 of Ord. 385-14 — Finance Department (O 265-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Municipal Construction Equipment Operators Labor Council (Water Plant Operators, Stationary
Engineers, Boiler Room Operators) — approve collective bargaining agreement — amend
Section 12 of Ord. 385-14 — Finance Department (O 266-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications — repeal Ord. 385-14 — Finance
Department (O 323-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

Landmark Commission
Stuyvesant Motor Company Building — Prospect Ave., 1937 — PPN 103-03-037 — designate as
landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 198-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

Liquor Permits
Clark Ave., 4310-12 — objection to stock transfer (Ward 03) (R 336-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th St., 2063 — stock application (Ward 03) (F 363-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 2044 — withdraw objection to transfer of location — repeal Res. 1640-14
(Ward 05) (R 339-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lansing Ave., 6508-10 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 12)
(R 337-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 1144-46 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 362-15) . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1503 (1st fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
1642-14 (Ward 12) (R 338-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 3980 — objection to stock transfer (Ward 07) (R 335-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6718 — objection to issuance (Ward 07) (R 361-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St., 3585 — objection to issuance (Ward 11) (R 360-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Whiskey Island, 2800 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 15) (F 350-15) . . . . . . .

425

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

407
406
389
389
385

The City Record

46

April 1, 2015

Name Change
Triangle Park — Intersections of Lakeshore Blvd., East 174th St., Nottingham Rd. — change
name to “Veteran’s Park” — Capital Projects Office (Ward 08) (O 355-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Neighborhood Equity Funds (NEF)
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission’s Urban Youth Recreation Initiative — Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission — agreement — Community Development (Ward 17 NEF) (O 357-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA)
Supporting Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative (TLCI) — To further study
the Big Creek/I-71 Relocation and Restoration Initiative — Grant (R 330-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative, 2015 — Grant — City Planning (O 351-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386

Ohio Department Of Education
After School Hot Meal Program, 2015-16 — participate — Children’s Hunger Alliance — Works
Department (O 190-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
Supporting Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative (TLCI) — To further study
the Big Creek/I-71 Relocation and Restoration Initiative — Grant (R 330-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative, 2015 — Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency — Grant — City Planning (O 351-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386

Permits
Burten, Bell Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. and Scovill Ave. — May 27 to
June 26 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — Banner — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05)
(O 356-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Canal Rd. — encroach into right-of-way — fiber-optic communications duct bank — Sherwin —
Williams Company — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(O 112-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Square — encroach into right - of - way — maintaining various utility facilities,
lines, conduits and streetscape elements — various private utilities and
private entities — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 352-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
YMCA Firecracker Run — July 4th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03) (O 359-15) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

Professional Services
East 75th Street Area Sewer Project — design and construction — amend Ord. 889-12 —
Utilities Department (WPC) (Ward 05) (O 147-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development Department — evaluate, assess, and remediate brownfield properties
(O 218-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance coverages, fire, extended real and personal property — Cleveland Public Power
Division — Utilities Department (O 223-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security guard services, armed — various recreation facilities — Works Department (O 191-15) .
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative, 2015 — Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency — Grant — City Planning (O 351-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 418
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 417
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386

Public Improvements
Dwayne Browder Football Field — renovations, rehabilitation and improvements —
Lonnie Burten Recreation Center — Works Department — Capital Projects Office
(Ward 05) (O 353-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 22nd St. reconstruction (Orange Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consent — State of Ohio —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 125-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 75th Street Area Sewer Project — design and construction — amend Ord. 889-12 —
Utilities Department (WPC) (Ward 05) (O 147-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakefront West Project, constructing (West Shoreway from West Blvd. to West 25th Street,
including the extension of West 73rd Street) — consent — State of Ohio —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 11, 14 and 15) (O 124-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave. (West of East 89th St. to East 116th St. (Martin Luther King Jr.
Drive) rehabilitation — consent — State of Ohio — Capital Projects Office (Ward 04
and 06) (O 123-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Public Square
Encroach into right - of - way — maintaining various utility facilities, lines, conduits
and streetscape elements — various private utilities and private entities — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 352-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386

426

April 1, 2015

The City Record

47

Public Works
After School Hot Meal Program, 2015-16 — participate — Children’s Hunger Alliance — Ohio
Department of Education (O 190-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dwayne Browder Football Field — renovations, rehabilitation and improvements —
Lonnie Burten Recreation Center — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 353-15) . . . . . . . .
Operation of concession stands at Gordon Park and Brookside Park — concession agreements
(O 80-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salt, rock — Streets Division (O 117-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security guard services, armed — various recreation facilities (O 191-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, large capacity with operators — rental of — renew Contract No. RC 2013-80 —
Aggregate Construction Inc. (O 188-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 416
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 417
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 417

Purchases And Supplies Division
East 30th St. and Central Ave. — acquire easements — public sidewalk — Cuyahoga
Metropolitan Housing Authority — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 46-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
West 130th St., 4514 — sell city-owned property — B.M.W. Realty Company Incorp. — Denison
Auto Parts, Inc. (O 193-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

Races
YMCA Firecracker Run — permit — July 4th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
(Ward 03) (O 359-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

Recognition
Council on American-Islamic Relations, 13th Annual Civil Rights Banquet (R 372-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
Top Ladies of Distinction, Inc., Greater Cleveland Chapter, Area V (R 371-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385

Resolution Of Support
Cancer Awareness Month, September 2015 (R 342-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Cleveland Montessori School and the Alta House Foundation — Ohio Historic
Preservation Tax Credits — redevelopment of Alta House Bldg., Mayfield Rd., 12510
(Ward 06) (R 343-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative (TLCI) — To further study
the Big Creek/I-71 Relocation and Restoration Initiative — Grant (R 330-15) . . . . . . . . .
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging Congress to pass the Marketplace Fairness Act of 2015 — Sales tax on internet
purchases (R 286-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging stay of removal for Mrs. Erika Flores Cortes (R 340-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Urging stay of removal for Mrs. Erika Flores Cortes (R 340-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408

Salaries
Longshoreman Association, Local 1317 — approve collective bargaining agreement — amend
Section 19 of Ord. 385-14 — Finance Department — Human Resources
Department (O 265-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Municipal Construction Equipment Operators Labor Council (Water Plant Operators, Stationary
Engineers, Boiler Room Operators) — approve collective bargaining agreement — amend
Section 12 of Ord. 385-14 — Finance Department — Human Resources
Department (O 266-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications — repeal Ord. 385-14 — Finance
Department — Human Resources Department (O 323-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

Sewers
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 111-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 415

State Of Ohio
East 22nd St. reconstruction (Orange Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consent — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 05) (O 125-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Lakefront West Project, constructing (West Shoreway from West Blvd. to West 25th Street,
including the extension of West 73rd Street) — consent — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 11, 14 and 15) (O 124-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Woodland Ave. (West of East 89th St. to East 116th St. (Martin Luther King Jr. Drive)
rehabilitation — consent — Capital Projects Office (Ward 04 and 06) (O 123-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

427

The City Record

48

April 1, 2015

Street Vacation
East 4th St., and East 6th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office —
City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (R 354-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Streets Division
Salt, rock — Works Department (O 117-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 416

Summer Employment Program
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program, 2015 — administration, implementation,
and manage — Youth Opportunities Unlimited (O 222-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 418

Tax Credits
Support Cleveland Montessori School and the Alta House Foundation — Ohio Historic
Preservation Tax Credits — redevelopment of Alta House Bldg., Mayfield Rd., 12510
(Ward 06) (R 343-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408

Taxes
Urging Congress to pass the Marketplace Fairness Act of 2015 — Sales tax on internet
purchases (R 286-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406

Utilities Department
Automated Meter Reading Program — data collection device fixed locations — agreements —
Water Division (O 182-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program, 2015 — administration, implementation,
and manage — Youth Opportunities Unlimited (O 222-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 75th Street Area Sewer Project — design and construction — amend Ord. 889-12 (WPC)
(Ward 05) (O 147-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
High-voltage static transmission pipe-type cable system components and for emergency oil
spill cleanup — contracts — Cleveland Public Power Division (O 224-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance coverages, fire, extended real and personal property — Cleveland Public Power
Division (O 223-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland — amend Section 543.02 (O 111-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniforms and Equipment for Security Officers; Maintenance Allowance — enact Section 129.37
(O 184-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 4514 — sell city-owned property — B.M.W. Realty Company Incorp. — Denison
Auto Parts, Inc. (O 193-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 416
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 418
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 418
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 415
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 417
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

Ward 01
Mac’s Sports Grill LLC — exterior roofing improvements — agreement — Economic
Development (Ward 01 CRF) (O 332-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance — Court Community
Service — Aging Department (O 334-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Ward 02
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Ward 03
Amend Ord. 835-14 — East 9th St., Superior Ave., and Walnut Ave. —
encroach into right-of-way — permanent streetscape improvements — 1717 East 9th LLC —
City Planning Commission (O 75-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 4310-12 — objection to stock transfer — liquor permit (R 336-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th St., 2063 — stock application — liquor permit (F 363-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th St., and East 6th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office —
City Planning Commission (R 354-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 1144-46 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 362-15) . . . . . . . . .
Public Square — encroach into right - of - way — maintaining various utility facilities,
lines, conduits and streetscape elements — various private utilities and
private entities — Capital Projects Office (O 352-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging stay of removal for Mrs. Erika Flores Cortes (R 340-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
YMCA Firecracker Run — permit — July 4th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 359-15) . . . . . . .

428

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

April 1, 2015

The City Record

49

Ward 04
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Woodland Ave. (West of East 89th St. to East 116th St. (Martin Luther King Jr.
Drive) rehabilitation — consent — State of Ohio — Capital Projects Office (Ward 04
and 06) (O 123-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Ward 05
Burten, Bell Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St. and Scovill Ave. — May 27 to
June 26 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — Banner — Capital Projects Office
(O 356-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Campus District Community Dialogue Program — Campus District, Inc. — agreement —
Community Development (Ward(s) 05, 07 CRF) (O 333-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dwayne Browder Football Field — renovations, rehabilitation and improvements —
Lonnie Burten Recreation Center — Works Department — Capital Projects Office
(O 353-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 22nd St. reconstruction (Orange Ave. to Euclid Ave.) — consent — State of Ohio —
Capital Projects Office (O 125-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 30th St. and Central Ave. — acquire easements — public sidewalk — Cuyahoga
Metropolitan Housing Authority — Capital Projects Office — Purchases and Supplies
Division (O 46-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 75th Street Area Sewer Project — design and construction — amend Ord. 889-12 —
Utilities Department (WPC) (O 147-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 2044 — withdraw objection to transfer of location — repeal Res. 1640-14 —
liquor permit (R 339-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stuyvesant Motor Company Building — Prospect Ave., 1937 — PPN 103-03-037 — designate as
landmark — City Planning Commission — Landmarks Commission (O 198-15) . . . . . . . . .
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Ward 06
Kenniebrew, Rev. Melvin Lamar — Condolence (R 368-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Cleveland Montessori School and the Alta House Foundation — Ohio Historic
Preservation Tax Credits — redevelopment of Alta House Bldg., Mayfield Rd., 12510
(R 343-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave. (West of East 89th St. to East 116th St. (Martin Luther King Jr.
Drive) rehabilitation — consent — State of Ohio — Capital Projects Office (Ward 04
and 06) (O 123-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Ward 07
Campus District Community Dialogue Program — Campus District, Inc. — agreement —
Community Development (Ward(s) 05, 07 CRF) (O 333-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Davis, Eva Mae — Condolence (R 365-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 3980 — objection to stock transfer — liquor permit (R 335-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6718 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 361-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Top Ladies of Distinction, Inc., Greater Cleveland Chapter, Area V — Recognition (R 371-15)
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

419
385
406
389
385

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Ward 08
Triangle Park — Intersections of Lakeshore Blvd., East 174th St., Nottingham Rd. — change
name to “Veteran’s Park” — Capital Projects Office (O 355-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School Boys Varsity Basketball Team — Congratulations
(R 370-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385

Ward 09
Cancer Awareness Month, September 2015 (R 342-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minority Men’s Health and Community Health Educational Event — disease prevention
and health — Cleveland Clinic: Minority Men’s Health Center — Cleveland Clinic
Foundation — Health Department (Ward 09 CRF) (O 331-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavelich, Chief John, University Circle Police Department — Congratulations (R 369-15). . .
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

The City Record

50

April 1, 2015

Ward 10
Top Ladies of Distinction, Inc., Greater Cleveland Chapter, Area V — Recognition (R 371-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Williams, Sr., Earl W. — Condolence (R 367-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385

Ward 11
Lakefront West Project, constructing (West Shoreway from West Blvd. to West 25th Street,
including the extension of West 73rd Street) — consent — State of Ohio —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 11, 14 and 15) (O 124-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
West 117th St., 3585 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 360-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Ward 12
Lansing Ave., 6508-10 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — objection to transfer of ownership —
liquor permit (R 337-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1503 (1st fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
1642-14 — liquor permit (R 338-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging Congress to pass the Marketplace Fairness Act of 2015 — Sales tax on internet
purchases (R 286-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406

Ward 13
Brown, Veria Lee (Tyler) — Condolence (R 366-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
Council on American-Islamic Relations, 13th Annual Civil Rights Banquet —
Recognition (R 372-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Ward 14
Lakefront West Project, constructing (West Shoreway from West Blvd. to West 25th Street,
including the extension of West 73rd Street) — consent — State of Ohio —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 11, 14 and 15) (O 124-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
ProCop House Project — Community Service Alliance — agreement — Community
Development (Ward 14 CRF) (O 358-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
Supporting Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative (TLCI) — To further study
the Big Creek/I-71 Relocation and Restoration Initiative — Grant (R 330-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

Ward 15
Lakefront West Project, constructing (West Shoreway from West Blvd. to West 25th Street,
including the extension of West 73rd Street) — consent — State of Ohio —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 11, 14 and 15) (O 124-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Whiskey Island, 2800 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 350-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385

Ward 16
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
West 130th St., 4514 — sell city-owned property — B.M.W. Realty Company Incorp. — Denison
Auto Parts, Inc. (O 193-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

Ward 17
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission’s Urban Youth Recreation Initiative — Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission — agreement — Community Development (Ward 17 NEF) (O 357-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
Urging Congress to add provisions to The Affordable Care Act, for affordable and effective
long term care insurance for seniors (R 364-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Water Division
Automated Meter Reading Program — data collection device fixed locations — agreements —
Utilities Department (O 182-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 416

Water Pollution Control Division (WPC)
East 75th Street Area Sewer Project — design and construction — amend Ord. 889-12 —
Utilities Department (Ward 05) (O 147-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

430

