The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

March the Third, Two Thousand and Ten

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name
Terrell H. Pruitt
Zachary Reed
Joe Cimperman
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Jeffrey D. Johnson
Kevin Conwell
Eugene R. Miller
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Kevin J. Kelley
Brian J. Cummins
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
18
19
21
25
26
26
26
26
26
30
31

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman..............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell .................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow ..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell...................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley ..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone......................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
________________, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – _________, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole D.West, Interim Director, Room
121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – John D. Mahone, Interim Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia
Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F. Denk,
Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P.
O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela Caldwell,
Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council Member
____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia
Nolan, David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair; Laura
M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey, Allan
Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12B
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
12A
Judge Michelle D. Earley
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
12C
Judge Michael John Ryan
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 2010

Vol. 97

No. 5021

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2010
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Cimperman,
Services
Committee:
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Conwell,
Cummins,
Dow,
Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

File No. 279-10.
Re: #2402515 — C1, C2 Transfer of
Ownership Application — East 116th
Savmor Food, Inc., d.b.a. Martin
Luther King Savmor, 1st Floor and
basement, 3750 Martin Luther King
Jr. Boulevard. (Ward 2). Received.
File No. 280-10.
Re #8774680 — D2, D2X, D3 Transfer of Location Application
—
Restaurant Management Services,
LLC, d.b.a. Zinc., 6687 Euclid Avenue, 1st floor and patio. (Ward 3).
Received.
File No. 281-10.
Re #8774680 — D3A New Application — Restaurant Management Services, LLC, d.b.a. Zinc., 6687 Euclid
Avenue, 1st floor and patio, (Ward
3). Received.
File No. 282-10.
Re #1991263 – C2 New Application
– Gerald B. Debose, d.b.a., the Shop,
11333 Superior Avenue (Ward 9).
Received.

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 1, 2010
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Pruitt,
Reed,
Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank J.
Jackson; Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer; Chris Warren, Chief of
Regional Development; Andrea V.
Taylor, Press Secretary; Andrew
Watterson, Chief of Sustainability;
and Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Withers, Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Rybka, Nichols, Fumich,
Interim Directors Walker Minor,
Mahone, West and Acting Director
Munday Workman.
Moment of Silence. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson,
K.
Johnson,
Kelley,
Mitchell.

FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

On the motion of Council Member
Kelley, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Brancatelli.

241

File No. 283-10.
Re #6363210 — C1 Transfer of
Ownership Application — New Look
Beverage,
LLC,
831
East
140th
Street. (Ward 10). Received.
File No. 284-10.
Re #31605710001 — C2, C2X Transfer of Location Application — GGA
Enterprises, Inc., d.b.a. Athens Imported Foods & Deli, Unit 21, 5120
Pearl Road. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 285-10.
Re#1171034 — D5J New Application — CRC Cleveland, Inc., d.b.a.
Obryckis,
5300
Riverside
Drive.
(Ward 18). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 286-10 — Willie James
Jackson.
Res. No. 287-10 — Annette Marie
Jenkins.
Res. No. 288-10 — Dr. Edward
Young.
Res. No. 289-10 — Nathaniel Emmanuel Williams.
Res.
No.
290-10
—
Claudette
Woodard.
Res. No. 291-10 — Donald F. Brittenum, M.D.

The City Record

4
Res. No. 292-10 — Judge August
Pryatel.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 293-10—Fred M. DeGrandis.
Res. No. 294-10—Karl J. Ertle II.
Res. No. 295-10—Richard P. Bongorno.
Res. No. 296-10—George Dobrovic.
Res. No. 297-10—Jonathan Holody.
Res. No. 298-10—Addie Bee Tufts.
Res. No. 299-10—Sandra Henighan
Rose.
Res. No. 300-10—Pastor Stephen M.
Gulley.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 301-10—Cleveland Dietetic
Association / “National Nutrition
Month 2010”.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 261-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of water
revenue obligations in the maximum
principal amount of $50,000,000 to
fund costs of acquiring automated
water meter reading infrastructure
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, the City has determined
to deploy a system to automatically
collect water meter readings and
other data related to water use and
for that purpose it is necessary for
the City to acquire equipment, install software and integrate the
advanced water meter infrastructure
with the existing billing and security systems in the Division of
Water (the “Project”);
Whereas, the City is authorized
under Article XVIII of the Constitution of the state of Ohio and the
Charter
of
the
City
to
make
improvements to the Waterworks
System and to borrow money to pay
costs of those improvements, subject
to compliance with the covenants of
the City in the Amended and Restated Trust Indenture, effective as of
October 5, 2001, as supplemented and
amended from time to time, between
the City and U.S. Bank National
Association, as trustee (the “Bond
Indenture”), securing the City’s outstanding Water Revenue Bonds and
any additional Water Revenue Bonds
issued from time to time (collectively, the “Bonds”);
Whereas, this Council has determined that it is necessary to issue
obligations to provide interim funding for the Project as provided in
this ordinance (the “Obligations”) in
anticipation of definitive financing
to be provided by additional Bonds
to be issued under the Bond Indenture to retire the Obligations and to
fund other improvements to the
Waterworks System; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure pro-

viding for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety in that this ordinance is required to be immediately effective to permit the issuance
and sale of the Obligations to fund
contracts for the acquisition of the
Project for the operation of the
Waterworks System and thereby
provide for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Obligations in
an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed Fifty Million Dollars
($50,000,000) to pay a portion of the
costs of the Project, including costs
of acquiring meters, registers, computer hardware and software and
other equipment, fees and expenses
for technology and other professional services for the installation of the
equipment and software and its integration with existing billing and
security systems, funding any capitalized interest and paying all expenses incurred in connection with
the issuance of the Obligations.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Obligations
shall be issued pursuant to the Article XVIII of the Ohio Constitution,
the Charter of the City, and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1. The Obligations shall be
payable from and secured by the net
revenues of the Waterworks System
in the Additions and Improvements
Fund established under the Bond
Indenture on a basis subordinate to
the Bonds under the Bond Indenture.
The Obligations shall not constitute
“Bonds” under the Bond Indenture.
The principal of the Obligations
may not be accelerated if any Bonds
are outstanding under the Bond
Indenture unless those outstanding
Bonds have been accelerated.
Section 3. Rate Covenant. So long
as Obligations are outstanding, the
City covenants, subject to all applicable requirements and restrictions
imposed by law, that at all times it
will prescribe and charge such rates
and charges for the services of the
Waterworks System, and will so
restrict operating expenses of the
Waterworks System as shall result
in net revenues of the Waterworks
System in each year at least equal
to amounts required to comply with
its covenants under the Bond Indenture and to pay the principal of and
interest on the Obligations in the
then current year (less any interest
funded from proceeds of the Obligations).
Section 4. Terms of the Obligations. (a) Amount, Designation, Dating, Denominations. The Obligations
shall be issued in the principal
amount, which shall not exceed the
amount stated in Section 1, and
shall bear interest from their date
until the principal amount is paid at
the rate or rates per year and
payable on the dates specified in the
certificate of award providing for
the final terms of the Obligations
and the sale of the Obligations in
accordance with this Ordinance (the
“Certificate of Award”). The Obligations shall be issued in fully registered form and shall be designated,
numbered and dated as determined

242

March 3, 2010
by the Director of Finance and set
forth in the Certificate of Award.
The Obligations may be delivered in
book-entry form, in which case the
Obligations shall be registered in
the name of The Depository Trust
Company or its nominee (together
with any successor securities depository, the “Depository”), as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another
Depository) without further action
by the City as provided in the Registrar Agreement authorized in Section 6. The Obligations shall be
issued
in
such
denominations
(“Authorized
Denominations”)
as
are stated in the Certificate of
Award to be authorized denominations. The Obligations shall be
signed by the Mayor and the Director of Finance, provided that either
or both of those signatures may be
a facsimile. The Registrar identified
in Section 6 shall be the authenticating
agent,
registrar,
transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Obligations.
(b) Interest Rates. If the Obligations bear interest at fixed rates of
interest, the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Obligation to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed four percent (4%) per year. The Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award, based on the written advice of a financial advisor,
that the City’s best interests will be
served by causing all or a portion
of the Obligations to be obligations
bearing interest at variable rates. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the Director of Finance
shall specify in the Certificate of
Award the method and procedure by
which the variable rate of interest
to be borne by the variable rate
Obligations shall be determined,
whether by reference to a market
index, by a remarketing agent or
otherwise; provided that the variable rate Obligations shall not bear
interest at a rate in excess of twenty-five percent (25%) per year. Provision shall also be made in the Certificate of Award for an assumed
interest rate with respect to variable
rate Obligations for purposes of
complying with the rate covenant.
Holders of variable rate Obligations
may be given the right to tender
their variable rate Obligations for
purchase by the City at the times,
on the terms, and subject to the conditions set forth in the Certificate of
Award and any tender agreement. If
the Director of Finance designates
any Obligations as variable rate
Obligations, and if the holders of
the variable rate Obligations are to
be entitled to tender the variable
rate Obligations for purchase, then
the Director of Finance shall also
designate
in
the
Certificate
of
Award for those variable rate Obligations the tender agent or agents
and
the
remarketing
agent
or
agents, which designations shall be
based on the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, that the parties so designated
possess the requisite resources and
experience to provide the services

March 3, 2010
required of them and that the terms
on which the designated parties
have agreed to provide such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into agreements
in connection with the delivery of
the variable rate Obligations, and
from time to time thereafter so long
as the variable rate Obligations are
outstanding, with providers of Credit Support Instruments (as defined
in Section 10), tender agents (which
may be the Registrar provided for
in Section 6), remarketing agents,
and others as may be determined by
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a financial
advisor, to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, permitting holders the right
of tender, providing for liquidity or
credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Obligations upon
tender for purchase or at maturity
or upon prior redemption, and providing for the repayment by the
City of any amounts drawn under
any Credit Support Instrument.
(c) Maturity; Principal Payments;
Mandatory Redemption. The Obligations shall mature in the years and
principal amounts set forth in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
the final maturity date of the Obligations shall be no later than December 1, 2015. The Obligations stated
to mature in any year may be issued
as serial Obligations or as term
Obligations payable prior to stated
maturity pursuant to sinking fund
redemption
(the
“Term
Obligations”). The Director of Finance
shall determine in the Certificate of
Award whether any of the Obligations shall be issued as Term Obligations, any dates (the “Mandatory
Redemption Dates”) on which the
principal amount of the Term Obligations shall be payable pursuant to
mandatory
sinking
fund
installments rather than at stated maturity and the amount of principal to be
paid on each Mandatory Redemption
Date (the “Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
If any of the Obligations are
issued as Term Obligations, the
Term Obligations shall be redeemed
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements at a
redemption price of 100 percent of
the principal amount redeemed, plus
interest accrued to the redemption
date, on the Mandatory Redemption
Dates. The aggregate of the moneys
to be deposited with the Registrar
for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Obligations
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Obligations payable on those
dates pursuant to the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements (less the amount of any credit as provided in the Registrar
Agreement).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar for cancellation Term Obligations in any
aggregate principal amount and to
receive a credit against the then
current or any subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation) of the

The City Record
City, as specified by the Director of
Finance, for Term Obligations stated to mature on the same principal
payment date as the Term Obligations so delivered. That option shall
be exercised by the City on or
before the 15th day preceding any
Mandatory Redemption Date with
respect to which the City wishes to
obtain a credit, by furnishing the
Registrar a certificate, signed by
the Director of Finance, setting
forth the extent of the credit to be
applied with respect to the then current or any subsequent Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement for Term Obligations stated to
mature on the same principal payment date. If the certificate is not
timely furnished to the Registrar,
the current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) shall not be reduced. A
credit against the then current or
any subsequent Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation), as specified by the
Director of Finance, also shall be
received by the City for any Term
Obligations which prior thereto have
been redeemed (other than through
the operation of the applicable
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements) or purchased for
cancellation and canceled by the
Registrar, to the extent not applied
theretofore as a credit against any
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement, for Term Obligations stated to mature on the same
principal payment date as the Term
Obligations so redeemed or purchased and canceled.
Each Term Obligation so delivered, or previously redeemed, or purchased and canceled, shall be credited by the Registrar at 100% of the
principal amount thereof against the
then current or subsequent Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements (and corresponding
mandatory redemption obligations),
as specified by the Director of
Finance, for Term Obligations stated to mature on the same principal
payment date as the Term Obligations so delivered, redeemed or purchased and canceled.
(d)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Obligations
may
be
subject
to
redemption prior to maturity by and
at the option of the City, in whole
or in part in Authorized Denominations, on the dates and at the
redemption prices determined by the
Director of Finance in the Certificate of Award, which may include
payment of a make whole premium.
Based on the written advice of a
financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the
best interests of the City for some
or all of the Obligations not to be
callable prior to their stated maturity.
If optional redemption of Term
Obligations at a redemption price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any Mandatory Redemption Date applicable to those Term
Obligations, the Term Obligations,
or portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the

243

5
Term Obligations of the same maturity to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements. Term Obligations to be redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
shall be redeemed only upon written
notice from the Director of Finance
to the Registrar. That notice shall
specify the redemption date and the
principal amount of each maturity
of Term Obligations to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least 45 days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Bond Registrar.
If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City
may have the option to purchase
any Obligation which is redeemable
by optional redemption at a purchase price not less than the redemption price that would be payable if that Obligation were called
for optional redemption on the date
of the proposed purchase.
(e) Redemption Procedures. If
fewer than all of the outstanding
Obligations are called for optional
redemption at one time and Obligations of more than one maturity are
then outstanding, the Obligations
that are called shall be Obligations
of the maturity or maturities selected by the City. If fewer than all of
the Obligations of a single maturity
are to be redeemed, the selection of
Obligations of that maturity to be
redeemed, or portions thereof in
Authorized Denominations shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. If it is determined that less
than all of the principal amount represented by a Obligation is to be
called for redemption, then the registered owner of that Obligation
shall surrender the Obligation to the
Registrar (i) for payment of the
redemption price of the principal
amount called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the date fixed for
redemption and any premium), and
(ii) for issuance, without charge to
the registered owner, of a new
Obligation or Obligations of any
Authorized
Denomination
in
an
aggregate principal amount equal to
the unmatured and unredeemed portion of, and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date as, the Obligation surrendered.
The notice of the call for redemption of Obligations shall identify
(A) by designation, letters, numbers
or other distinguishing marks, the
Obligations or portions thereof to be
redeemed, (B) the redemption price
to be paid, (C) the date fixed for
redemption, and (D) the place or
places where the amounts due upon
redemption are payable. If so directed by the City, that notice may provide with respect to any optional
redemption that the redemption is
contingent on the deposit of money
with the paying agent in an amount
sufficient to pay the redemption
price of the Obligations to be optionally redeemed. The notice shall be
given by the Registrar on behalf of
the City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least seven
days prior to the date fixed for
redemption, to the registered owner
of
each
Obligation
subject
to

6
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the register maintained by
the Registrar at the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding
that mailing. Failure to receive
notice by mail or any defect in that
notice regarding any Obligation,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Obligation.
In the event that notice of redemption shall have been given by
the Registrar to the registered owners as provided above, and there
shall have been deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date, moneys that, in addition
to any other moneys available therefor and held by the Registrar, are
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price thereof, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date, all
of the redeemable Obligations for
which notice of redemption has been
given, the Obligations and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and upon presentation and surrender thereof at the
place or places specified in that
notice, shall be paid at the redemption price, plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. If moneys for
the redemption of all of the Obligations and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with accrued
interest thereon to the redemption
date, are held by the Registrar on
the redemption date, so as to be
available therefor on that date and,
if notice of redemption has been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Obligations and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
cease to bear interest and no longer
shall be considered to be outstanding. If those moneys shall not be so
available on the redemption date, or
that notice shall not have been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
those Obligations and portions thereof shall continue to bear interest,
until they are paid, at the same rate
as they would have borne had they
not been called for redemption. All
moneys held by the Registrar for
the redemption of particular Obligations shall be held in trust for the
account of the registered owners
thereof and shall be paid to them,
respectively, upon presentation and
surrender of those Obligations, provided that any interest earned on
the moneys so held by the Registrar
shall be for the account of and paid
to the City to the extent not
required for the payment of the
Obligations for redemption.
Section 5. Sale of Obligations. The
Obligations shall be awarded to the
purchaser identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award
shall specify the final terms of the
Obligations in accordance with law,
the provisions of this Ordinance, the
written advice of a financial advisor and the Original Purchaser’s
offer to purchase the Obligations,
including: the principal amount of
the Obligations, the purchase price
(which shall be not less than 97%
of the principal amount plus any
accrued interest from the date of the
Obligations to their date of delivery), the interest rate or rates, the

The City Record
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), any optional
redemption dates, the interest payment dates, the date of the Obligations,
and
any
other
matters
required in this Ordinance to be set
forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor,
Director of Finance, Director of
Law, Director of Public Utilities,
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and
each of them is, authorized to take
such
actions
as
are
necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Obligations
and
to
make
such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery of the Obligations to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and certificates, to cause
a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Obligations to be delivered to the
Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Obligations. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City a purchase agreement between the City and the Original
Purchaser
(the
“Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and
conditions on which the City agrees
to sell the Obligations and the Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Obligations on terms consistent with
this Ordinance, that are not substantially adverse to the City, and
that are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Purchase Agreement or amendments to
the Purchase Agreement by the
Director of Finance. The proceeds
from the sale of the Obligations
shall be applied as provided in the
Certificate of Award. It is determined that the terms of the Obligations, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award
are in the best interest of the City
and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Section 6. Registrar Agreement;
Other Documents. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, the Registrar Agreement
between the City and the Bond
Trustee, in its capacity as registrar
and paying agent for the Obligations (the “Registrar”), in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No
261-10-A. The Registrar Agreement
is approved, together with any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this Ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City

244

March 3, 2010
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the Registrar Agreement or amendments
thereto. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Registrar Agreement,
except to the extent paid or reimbursed by the Original Purchaser in
accordance
with
the
Purchase
Agreement, from the proceeds of the
Obligations to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
No Obligations shall be valid or
obligatory for any purpose or shall
be entitled to any security or benefit under this Ordinance unless and
until the certificate of authentication printed on the Obligation is
signed by the Registrar as authenticating agent. Authentication by
the Registrar shall be conclusive
evidence that the Obligation so
authenticated has been duly issued,
signed and delivered under, and is
entitled to the security and benefit
of, this Ordinance. The certificate of
authentication may be signed by
any authorized officer or employee
of the Registrar or by any other person acting as an agent of the Registrar and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City.
If determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of a
financial
advisor,
that
it
will
enhance the marketability of the
Obligations, the Director of Finance
may sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a security agreement (the “Trust Indenture”) providing for covenants of
the City in addition to those contained in this Ordinance, for the
establishment of a debt service
reserve fund and other funds or
accounts for the security of the
Obligations, and other terms and
conditions determined by the Director of Finance to be necessary to
sell the Obligations and that are not
inconsistent with this Ordinance or
the Bond Indenture. In that event,
the provisions in the Registrar
Agreement may be incorporated in
the Trust Indenture and all references to the Registrar Agreement
shall mean instead the Trust Indenture and all references to the Registrar shall mean instead the trustee
under the Trust Indenture. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor,
the Director of Finance, the Director of Law, the Director of Public
Utilities, the Clerk of Council and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized to sign, acknowledge and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments in addition
to the Registrar Agreement and any
Trust Indenture as may be necessary or appropriate to issue and sell
the Obligations and to consummate
the transactions authorized by this
Ordinance.
Section 7. Establishment of Funds
and Accounts. An account for the
deposit of moneys to pay debt service on the Obligations (the “Subordinate Lien Debt Service Fund”) is
established as a separate deposit

March 3, 2010
account in the custody of the Bond
Trustee
in
the
Additions
and
Improvements Fund held by the City
in accordance with the Bond Indenture. After making all payments
required by Article V of the Bond
Indenture to be made for the payment or security of the Bonds, there
shall be deposited in the Subordinate Lien Debt Service Fund moneys sufficient to timely pay debt service on the Obligations payable in
the then current year. A separate
fund (the “Project Fund”) shall be
established for the deposit of the
proceeds of the Obligations and
shall be held by the City in a separate deposit account and used and
applied to pay costs of the Project,
including the reimbursement to the
City
of
moneys
temporarily
advanced for the purpose in anticipation of being reimbursed from the
proceeds of the Obligations. Moneys
on deposit in the Subordinate Lien
Debt Service Fund and the Project
Fund may be invested by or at the
direction of the Director of Finance
in
“Permitted
Investments”
as
defined in the Bond Indenture. Any
amounts in the Project Fund certified by the Director of Finance to
be in excess of the amount needed
to pay costs of the Project may be
used to pay interest on the Obligations if that expenditure will not, in
the opinion of bond counsel, adversely affect the exclusion of interest on
the Obligations from gross income
for federal income tax purposes.
Section 8. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of
the Obligations, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of
the City an Official Statement with
respect to the Obligations and any
necessary supplements and to authorize the use and distribution of an
Official Statement and any supplements. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity the
Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The Director of Finance is authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City
and in her official capacity such certificates in connection with the
accuracy of the Official Statement
and any supplements as may, in her
judgment, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC Rule.”)
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
If the SEC Rule is applicable to
the Obligations, the City agrees, for
the benefit of the holders and beneficial owners from time to time of
the Obligations, to provide or cause
to be provided such financial information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC

The City Record
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Obligations in accordance with
the SEC Rule. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
any continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision
of information and notices.
Section 9. Federal Tax Covenants.
With respect to any Obligations
issued as obligations the interest on
which
is
excluded
from
gross
income for federal income tax purposes (“Tax-Exempt Obligations”),
the City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Obligations in such manner
and to such extent as may be necessary so that (a) the Tax-Exempt
Obligations will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the TaxExempt Obligations to be and to
remain excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, (b)
it will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the TaxExempt Obligations to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property acquired with those proceeds, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Tax-Exempt Obligations, is hereby authorized (a) to
make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Tax-Exempt
Obligations as the City is permitted
or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws, including, without limitation thereto, any

245

7
of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the TaxExempt
Obligations
or
interest
thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with requirements for that purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate amount or payments or penalties, or making payments of special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Tax-Exempt Obligations, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Tax-Exempt Obligations, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt Obligations, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Tax-Exempt Obligations.
Section 10. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby
purchase
agreement
or
other credit enhancement or liquidity instrument as further security for
the payment when due of the principal of and interest on all or any
portion of the Obligations (a “Credit Support Instrument”). The Director of Finance may request a rating
on the Obligations from one or more
nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things
and
take
any
and
all
actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings on the Obligations. The Director of Finance may enter into one
or more agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing terms
not materially inconsistent with this
Ordinance. The expenditure of the
amounts necessary to secure Credit
Support Instruments or obtain those
ratings is authorized and approved,
and the Director of Finance is
authorized to provide for the payment of any such amounts from the
proceeds of the Obligations to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 11. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The

8
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchasers
and any other party interested in
the transaction.
Section 12. Authorization and Requirement of Declarations of Official Intent. The Director of Finance,
in consultation with the Director of
Public Utilities, is authorized to prepare and sign declarations of official intent in the form required by
United States Treasury Regulations
§1.150-2 (the “Reimbursement Regulations”) with respect to original
expenditures to which the Reimbursement Regulations apply, to be
made from money temporarily advanced for improvements to the
Waterworks System and that is reasonably expected to be reimbursed
from the proceeds of tax-exempt
notes, bonds or other obligations; to
make
appropriate
reimbursement
and timely allocations from the proceeds of the tax-exempt notes, bonds
or other obligations to reimburse
such original expenditures; and to
take any other actions as may be
appropriate, all at the times and in
the manner required under the Reimbursement Regulations in order
for the reimbursement to be treated
as an expenditure of such proceeds
for purposes of Sections 103 and 141
to 150 of the Code. No advance from
any fund or account or order for
payment may be made for original
expenditures (other than expenditures excepted from such requirement under the Reimbursement Regulations) that are to be reimbursed
subsequently from proceeds of taxexempt notes, bonds or other obligations, unless a declaration of official intent with respect thereto is
made within the time required by
the Reimbursement Regulations.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
any of its committees and that all
deliberations of this Council that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Obligations in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Obligations. It is further found and determined, and is
represented and recited, that all
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.

The City Record
Section 15. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is declared to be
an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent,
it is declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any
provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such
provisions to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared
to be the legislative intent that the
other provisions of this Ordinance
would have been passed independently of such section, or parts of a
section, so held to be invalid.
Section 16. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio. Any provisions
of the Codified Ordinances of the
City which are inconsistent with the
provisions of this Ordinance shall
not apply to the Obligations authorized herein.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Emergency Measure.
This ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of the Project which is urgently needed for the benefit of the City
and for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall
take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 262-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
J. Johnson, Miller, Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue permits to various property
owners, their successors and assigns, to encroach into the public
right-of-way beneath Euclid Avenue
within the Euclid Corridor Project
area by installing, using, and maintaining existing underground vaults.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

246

March 3, 2010
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
permits, revocable at the will of
Council, to various property owners,
their successors and assigns (“Permittees”), to encroach into the public right-of-way beneath Euclid Avenue within the Euclid Corridor Project area by installing, using, and
maintaining existing underground
vaults, at locations identified in File
No. 262-10-A and approved by the
Director of Public Service.
Section 2. That a Permittee may
assign a permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Public Service. That the encroaching structures permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That each Permittee
shall obtain all other required permits, including but not limited to
Building Permits, before installing
the encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law
shall
prepare
the
permits
authorized by this ordinance and
shall incorporate such additional
provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The permits
shall be issued only when, in the
opinion of the Director of Law, each
Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachment(s)
permitted.
Section 4. That each permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 263-10.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Cleveland State
University to encroach into the public right-of-way beneath Euclid Avenue by installing, using, and maintaining dual 12-inch chilled water
lines.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Cleveland State University (“Permittee”), 2121 Euclid Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44115,
to

March 3, 2010
encroach into the public right-ofway beneath Euclid Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining
dual 12-inch chilled water lines at
the following location:
UNDERGROUND UTILITY
ENCROACHMENT AREA
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being a part of
Original Ten Acre Lot Number 82
and being further bounded and
described as follows: Beginning at
the intersection of the centerline of
East 24th Street, now vacated, and
the northerly line of Euclid Avenue,
99 feet wide; Thence along the
northerly line of said Euclid Avenue
South 80° - 55' - 35" West, a distance
of 11.31 feet to the PRINCIPAL
PLACE OF BEGINNING of the herein described easement area:
Course 1: Thence South 17° - 18' 35" West, a distance of 6.00 feet to
a point;
Course 2: Thence South 09° - 04' 25" East, a distance of 93.63 feet to
a point on the southerly line of
Euclid Avenue;
Course 3: Thence along the southerly line of Euclid Avenue South 80°
- 55' - 35" West, a distance of 10.00
feet to a point thereon;
Course 4: Thence North 09° - 04' 25" West, a distance of 95.97 feet to
a point;
Course 5: Thence North 17° - 18' 35" East, a distance of 3.38 feet to
a point on the northerly line of
Euclid Avenue;
Course 6: Thence along the northerly line of Euclid Avenue North 80°
- 55' - 35" East, a distance of 11.16
feet to the Principal Place of Beginning according to a survey by
Christopher J. Dempsey, Professional Surveyor No. 6914, Dempsey Surveying Company dated November 13,
2009.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly indemnified the City against
any loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 264-10.
By Council Members Miller and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources for the 2010 Community
Development Grant (Drop Off) Program; authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies and entities
to implement the program; and
authorizing one or more contracts
for the purchase of materials, equipment, supplies, and services for the
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $50,000 from
the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources, for the 2010 Community
Development Grant (Drop Off) Program, for the purposes in the summary and according thereto; that the
Director of Public Service is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the summary
for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 264-10-A made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, including the obligation
of the City of Cleveland to provide
$25,000 in cash matching funds from
Fund No. 01-4003-6397, as presented
to the Finance Committee of this
Council at the public hearing on this
legislation, is approved in all respects and shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into an agreement with various
agencies and entities to implement
the program.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for the period of
the grant term for the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary for
implementation and operation of the
grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department
of Public Service. Bids shall be
taken in a manner which permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate

247

9
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire grant term.
Section 5. The cost of the contracts or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase,
which
purchase,
together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public Service may sign all documents that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the cost of the
above authorized contracts shall be
paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance
and the cash match.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 265-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the State of Ohio for the rehabilitation of the Willow Avenue Lift
Bridge; authorizing the Director of
Public Service to enter into any relative agreements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is
given to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio (“the
State”) to construct the following
improvement under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the
State: rehabilitation of the Willow
Avenue Lift Bridge over the Cuyahoga River by replacing the lift
span deck and stringers, the tower
span decks, tower beam connection
angles, sidewalks on the lift and
tower spans, the approach slabs,
rehabilitation of the hoist motors,
brake replacement, seating rehabilitation, interlocking system replacement, abutment joint replacement,
refurbish live load supports, railing

10
repair and fence replacement, lying
within the City of Cleveland (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes
to cooperate with the State in the
cost of the Improvement by assuming and contributing the entire cost
and expense of the Improvement,
less the amount of Federal-aid,
NOACA, and ARRA funds set aside
by the State from funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, for the financing of the
Improvement. The City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the
construction contract, at the request
of the City, which are determined by
the State not eligible or made necessary by the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
the State necessary to complete the
planning and construction of the
Improvement, which agreements shall
contain terms and conditions that
the Director of Law determines
shall best protect the public interest.
Section 4. That on completion of
the Improvement, the City will:
(a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
(b) Maintain the Improvement according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance;
(c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the State and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside stands, or other private installations within the limits of the
right-of-way;
(d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices under the Ohio Manual
of
Uniform
Traffic
Control
Devices under the provisions of Section 4511.11 and related sections of
the Revised Code;
(e) Prohibit all parking within
the limits of the roadway which is
a part of the Improvement under
Section 4511.66 of the Revised Code,
unless otherwise controlled by City
ordinance or resolution.
Section 5. (a) That all existing
streets
and
public
rights-of-way
within the City that are necessary
for the Improvement shall be made
available.
(b) That the City agrees that all
right-of-way required for the described project will be acquired
and/or made available under current State and federal regulations.
The City also understands that
right-of-way costs include eligible
utility costs.
(c) That arrangements have been
or will be made with and agreements obtained from all utility companies whose lines or structures will
be affected by the Improvement.
That the companies have agreed to
make any and all necessary rearrangements in such manner as to
be clear of any construction called
for by the plans for the Improvement. That the companies have
agreed to make necessary rearrangements immediately after notification by the City or the State.

The City Record
(d) That the State will participate
in the costs of alterations of governmentally-owned utility facilities
which come within the provisions of
ODOT Directive No. 28-A to the same
extent that it participates in the
other costs of the Improvement, provided that such participation will
not extend to additions or betterments of existing facilities.
(e) That the construction, reconstruction, and rearrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the Improvement, and all backfilling of trenches made necessary by utility rearrangement shall be performed
under the provisions of the ODOT
Construction and Material Specifications.
(f) That the installation of all
utility facilities on the right-of-way
shall conform with the requirements
of Title 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 6. That this Council requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 7. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
transmit to the State three (3) certified copies of this ordinance immediately on its taking effect, and it
shall become the basis for proceeding with the Improvement.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 266-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to lease the
Seneca Golf Course and certain adjacent
property
to
the
Cleveland
Metroparks and the City of Broadview Heights for a term of ninetynine years.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns property known as the Seneca
Golf Course and certain adjacent
property which is suitable for lease
and operation by another party for
a public use; and
Whereas, Cleveland Metroparks and
the City of Broadview Heights have
proposed to lease Seneca Golf Course
and certain adjacent property (“Leased Premises”) from the City; and
Whereas, the City and Cleveland
Metroparks have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding regarding
the use, operation, and maintenance
of the Leased Premises; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

248

March 3, 2010
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to lease to Cleveland Metroparks and the City of Broadview
Heights (“Lessees”) the Seneca Golf
Course and certain adjacent property which is outlined on the map
placed in File No. 266-10-A which is
suitable for lease by another party
for a public use.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976 the term of the lease authorized
by this ordinance shall not exceed
ninety-nine years.
Section 3. That the property authorized by this ordinance shall be
leased at fair market value as determined by the Board of Control.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize
the
Lessees
to
make
improvements to the Leased Premises subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall
authorize Cleveland Metroparks to
maintain a minimum of 18 of the
current 36 holes of golf for the term
of the lease as a championship,
PGA-regulation 18-hole golf course;
the other 18-holes of golf would be
utilized as public open space and
parkland, as determined by Cleveland Metroparks. Cleveland Metroparks shall maintain the green fees
for Seneca Golf Course the same as
the green fees established for Highland Golf Course. The adjacent property identified on the map placed in
the file shall be maintained as a
natural area.
Section 6. That Cleveland Metroparks will offer employment to
existing (as of 2008) City of Cleveland full-time and/or part-time employees, said employment consistent
with
Cleveland
Metroparks
pay
rates, position titles, union membership, fringe benefits and other Park
District personnel parameters.
Section 7. That the City of Cleveland will retain existing gas and oil
leases, including revenues, for 36
months following the execution date
of the lease. Thereafter, the gas and
oil leases and revenue will transfer
to Cleveland Metroparks. Any new
wells and leases will be at the determination and ownership of Cleveland Metroparks.
Section 8. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 9. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
the Director of Law, and other
appropriate City officials are authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

March 3, 2010
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 267-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating funds credited to Fund No. 17
SF 008 to provide NEHST Creations
LLC, and/or its designee, with a
loan
guarantee
on
three
films
approved by the State of Ohio for
the State of Ohio Film Tax Credit
and authorizing the execution and
delivery of appropriate documents
in connection with such guarantee.
Whereas, NEHST Creations LLC
(“NEHST”) is a New York-based
film production company that has
established an Ohio-based studio in
Cleveland, Ohio; and
Whereas, NEHST has received an
award of Ohio Film Tax Credits for
three movies to be made in Cleveland in an amount of 25% of the
total budget for the production of
the three (3) films; and
Whereas, NEHST has secured 55%
of the total budget of the three (3)
films as equity through private
investors; and
Whereas, a loan guarantee equal
to 10% of the total budget of the
three films from the City and a loan
guarantee equal to 10% of the total
budget of the three films from Cuyahoga County are necessary to complete the private financing in order
to proceed with production of the
three films; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any ordinance to the contrary, funds
up to $1,155,573 which are credited
to Fund No. 17 SF 008 are appropriated to provide NEHST Creations
LLC, and/or its designee, with a
loan guarantee on three films approved by the State of Ohio for the
State of Ohio Film Tax Credit. Request No. RQS 9501 RL 2010-28.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development, Director of
Finance, the Director of Law or any
other appropriate official is authorized to sign, deliver, or file any
documents, agreements, guarantee
agreements or certificates in connection with the aforesaid loan
guarantee which are required to evidence and/or provide such loan
guarantee.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 269-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted and implemented procedures
under Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization
of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
108 in Horace P. Weddell’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre
Lot Nos. 64. 65 and 66 as shown by
the recorded plat of Subdivision in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said Sublot
No. 108 has a frontage of 40 feet on
the Southerly side of Cedar Avenue,
S.E., and extends back between parallel lines 132 feet, as appears by
said plat, he the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-006
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 47 feet 9 inches of Sublot
No. 109 in Horace P. Weddell’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 64, 65 and 66 as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 2 of Maps,
Page
30
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; said Northerly 47 feet 9
inches of said Sublot No. 109 has a
frontage of 37 feet 11 inches on the
Southerly side of Cedar Avenue,
S.E., and extends back between
parallel lines 47 feet 9 inches, as

249

11
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 5. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-009
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
No. 1 in The William Williams’ Subdivision of a part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, and 69, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga
County Records, as appears by said
plat.
Section 7. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-035
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being parts of
Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69
and 70, recorded in Volume 3 on
Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Northeasterly line of Central
Avenue, S.E., 63 feet wide as shown
by said recorded map and the Easterly line of East 38th Street 60 feet
wide; thence Northerly 110.21 feet
along said Easterly line of East
38th Street to a point distant 8.00
feet Southerly therein from the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 21; thence Easterly 77.80 feet
parallel with the Northerly line of
said Sublot Nos. 21 and 22 to a
point; thence Southerly 126.64 feet
parallel with the said Easterly line
of East 38th Street to a point in
said Northeasterly line of Central
Avenue, S.E.; thence Northwesterly
79.50 feet along said Northeasterly
line of Central Avenue, S.E. to the
place of beginning, according to
survey by Robert H. Krause, Registered Ohio Surveyor, No. 2885, September 28, 1949, be the same more
or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances.
Section 9. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property,
more
fully
described
below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

12
P. P. No. 103-22-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 19 in William Williams’
Subdivision of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and 70, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Central Avenue, S.E., (formerly Garden Street) at a point 6 inches Westerly from the Southeasterly corner
of said Sublot No. 19; thence Westerly along said Northerly line of
Central Avenue, S.E., 25 feet; thence
Northerly parallel with the Easterly
line of said Sublot No. 19, 80 feet;
thence Easterly parallel with said
Northerly line of Central Avenue,
S.E., 25 feet; thence Southerly parallel with the Easterly line of said
Sublot No. 19, about 80 feet to the
place of the beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 11. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-039
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
18 in Williams Allotment of part of
Original 10 Acre Lots Nos. 67 and
69, 70 and 68, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Northeasterly
line of Central Avenue, S.E. (formerly Garden Street) at the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot No.
18; thence Northwesterly along the
Northeasterly line of Central Avenue, S.E., 25 feet 6 5/8 inches to the
Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to Mary Abbot by deed dated
June 4, 1858 and recorded in Volume 97, Page 255 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Northerly
along the Easterly line of land conveyed to Mary Abbot, as aforesaid,
123 feet 5? inches to the Northerly
line of said Sublot No. 18; thence
Easterly along said Northerly line
of Sublot No. 18, 25 feet to the
Northeasterly corner thereof; thence
Southerly along the Easterly line
of Sublot No. 18,128 feet 9 inches to
the place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 13. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordi-

The City Record
nance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-066
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 109 in H.P. Weddlell’s
Subdivision of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 64, 65 and 66 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on a Westerly line of
East 37th Street (formerly Forest
Street), 48 feet Southerly from its
intersection with the Southerly line
of Cedar Avenue, S.E., thence Westerly at right angles 37 feet 11 inches to the Westerly line of said
Sublot No. 109; thence Southerly
along said Westerly line, 29 feet;
thence Easterly parallel to the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 109,
37 feet 11 inches to the Westerly
line of East 37th Street, thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
East 37th Street, 29 feet to the place
of beginning, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 15. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-068
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 26 feet of Sublot No. 109
in H.P. Weddell’s Sublot No. of part
of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 64, 65
and 66, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 30
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line
of East 37th Street (formerly Forest Street) at a point 106 feet
Southerly from the Northerly line
of said Sublot No. 109; thence Westerly on a line parallel to said
Northerly
line
and
along
the
Southerly line of land conveyed by
Agnes Montgomery, a widow, to
William H. Beavis, by deed dated
July 14, 1906, and recorded in Volume 1034, Page 333 of Cuyahoga
County Records, 37 feet 11 inches
to the Westerly line of said Sublot
No. 109, thence Southerly along
said Westerly lot line 26 feet to the
Southwesterly
corner
of
said
Sublot; thence Easterly along the
Southerly line of said Sublot, 37
feet 11 inches to said Westerly line
of East 37th Street; thence Northerly along said Westerly line of East
37th Street, 26 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 17. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances

250

March 3, 2010
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-070
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being Sublot No.
105 in H.P. Weddel’s Subdivision of
part of Original Ten Acre Township
Lot Nos. 64, 65 and 66 as shown by
the recorded Plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 37th Street
and extends back of equal width 117
feet 11 inches deep, as appears by
said plat.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 19. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-087
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot No. 3 in Taylor and Hoyt’s
Subdivision of part of Ten Acre Lot
No. 66 in said City as the same is
recorded in Volume 2, Page 34 of
Maps of Land in said County. Said
lot is 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 37th Street (formerly
Forest Street) and is 73 1/2 feet
deep, according to said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 21. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-100
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 12 in Taylor & Hoyt’s
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot No. 66, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps,
Page
34,
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 37th Street at a point distant
Northerly 26.53 feet from the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
12; thence Northerly 3.95 feet along
the said Easterly line of East 37th
Street to a point; thence Easterly
73.42 feet parallel with the Norther-

March 3, 2010
ly line of said Sublot No. 12 to a
point in the Easterly line thereof;
thence Southerly 3.95 feet along the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 12
to a point; thence Westerly 73.42
feet parallel with the Northerly line
of said Sublot No. 12 to the place of
beginning.
Section 23. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-106
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 32 feet front to rear of
Sublot No. 16 in Taylor and Hoyt’s
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot No. 66, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps,
Page
34
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 32 feet front on
the Easterly side of Wheat Street,
(now known as East 37th Street)
and extending back of equal width
73 feet 5 inches deep, as appears by
said plat.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 25. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-108
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly one-half of Sublot No. 18
in Taylor and Hoyt Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 66,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 26
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 37th Street, and extending
back of equal width 73 feet five
inches, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 27. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-136
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 29 in William Williams’ Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre

The City Record
Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and 70, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 3
of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 50 feet front
on the Easterly side of East 38th
Street (formerly Williams Street),
and extending back of equal width
151-7/12 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 29. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-153
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 59 feet of the Northerly 23 feet
of Sublot No. 92 in Horace P. Weddell’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 64, 65 and
66, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 2 Maps, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 23
feet front on the Westerly side
East 37th Street, and extending
back of equal width 59 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 31. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-154
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 3 in William Williams’
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and 70, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga
County Records and together forming a parcel of land, bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Westerly line of
East 38th Street, (formerly Williams
Street), 60 feet wide, at the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 3;
thence Northerly along said Westerly line of East 38th Street, about
23.50 feet to a point distant Southerly (measured along said Westerly
line of East 38th Street), 126.50 feet
from the Southerly line of Cedar
Avenue, S.E., (66 feet wide); thence
Westerly along a line parallel with
said Southerly line of Cedar Avenue,
S.E., 40 feet; thence Southerly along
a line parallel with said Westerly
line of East 38th Street, 2.80 feet;
thence Westerly along a line parallel with said Southerly line of Cedar

251

13
Avenue, S.E., about 10.50 feet to the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 3,
thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 3, about 20.70
feet to the Southwesterly corner
thereof; thence Easterly along the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 3,
50.50 feet to the place of beginning,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 33. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real
property, more fully described below, to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-169
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Parcel B
in the Lot Split and Consolidation
Plat for BFR Partners Company of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos.
67 to 70, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 341, Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Section 35. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective date of this ordinance, or such
additional time as may be granted by
the Director of Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 36. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 37. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 38. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

14
Ord. No. 270-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 4345 Lee Road to
Union Miles Development Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Union
Miles Development Corporation or
designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 143-05-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, being Sublot No. 259 and parts
of Sublot Nos. 258 and 257 and part
of Block A in the Lee Miles Subdivision of part of Original Warrensville Township Lot No. 83, recorded
in Volume 102 of Maps, Page 22 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records, and
a part of Original Warrensville
Township Lot No. 83, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the center of Lee
Road (80 feet wide) at a point
which is 298.11 feet Southerly measured along center line of Lee Road,
from its point of intersection with
the Northerly line of said Original
Lot No. 83; thence South along said
center line a distance of 357.42 feet
to a point; thence South 89° 14' 00"
East a distance of 459.34 feet to a
point on the Westerly line of East
167 Street (50 feet wide); thence
North 13° 18' 00" East along said
Westerly line of East 167 Street; a
distance of 96.96 feet to a point;
thence North 76° 42' 00" West a distance of 138.00 feet to a point;
thence North 1° 47' 11" East a distance of 55.11 feet to a point; thence
North 13° 18' 00" East a distance of
182.03 feet to a point; thence North
8° 14' 00" West a distance of 390.93
feet to the center line of Lee Road
and the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordi-

The City Record
nance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 271-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at southwest corner of
East 119th Street and Miles Avenue
to Union Miles Development Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Union
Miles Development Corporation or
designee.

252

March 3, 2010
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 138-13-008
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 1/2 of Sublot No. 42 in the Bishop Hoyt Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 468,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 64 of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 50
feet front on the Southerly side of
Miles Avenue and extending back of
equal width 300 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Union
Miles Development Corporation or
designee.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 138-13-009
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being. Sublot
No. 58 in the Bishop-Hoyt Allotment
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 468, as shown
by the recorded Plat in Volume 64
of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 100 feet front
on the Southerly side of Miles Avenue and extending back of equal
width 300 feet, as appeals by said
plat.
Section 5. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Union
Miles Development Corporation or
designee.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 138-13-010
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the South
line of Miles Avenue, Five Hundred
(500) feet East of the East line of
East 116th Street (formerly Rice
Avenue); thence South 300 feet;
thence East Fifty (50) feet; thence
North Three Hundred (300) feet to
the South line of Miles Avenue;
thence West along the said South
line of Miles Avenue (50) feet to the
place of beginning. Also known as
part of Sublot No. 74 of Bishop &
Hoyt Allotment as recorded in Maps,
Volume 64, Page 28.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 7. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Union
Miles Development Corporation or
designee.

March 3, 2010
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 138-13-011
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 50 feet of Sublot No. 74 in the
Bishop and Hoyt Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 468 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 64 of Maps, Page 28
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being a parcel of land 50 feet front
on the Southerly side of Miles Avenue and extending back 300 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 9. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Union
Miles Development Corporation or
designee.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 138-13-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being the
Northerly 120 feet of Sublot Nos. 98
and 99 in The Bishop Hoyt Allotment of parts of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 468, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 64 of
Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga county
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land having a frontage of
140 feet on the Southerly side of
Miles Avenue, S.E., and extending
back of equal width 120 feet along
the Southerly side of East 119th
Street, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways, free and clear
of encumbrances except taxes and
assessments, general and special
payable for the first half of 1972 and
thereafter, restrictions of record,
and zoning ordinances.
Section 11. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Union
Miles Development Corporation or
designee.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 138-13-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being Northerly 34.06 feet of Sublots Nos. 52, 57,
63, 68 and 73 in The Bishop and
Hoyt Allotment of part of Original
Township Lot No. 468 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 64 of
Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said parts of Sublets
Nos. 52, 57, 63, 68 and 73 together
form a parcel of land 34.06 feet by
200 feet, the South line of which is
located parallel to and 150 feet distant from the Northerly line of

The City Record
Robertson Avenue, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 13. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 14. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 15. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 16. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 268-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An
emergency
resolution
supporting the Village of Cuyahoga
Heights’ grant application to the
Clean Ohio Council for Clean Ohio
Revitalization Program funds to be
used for the remediation and redevelopment of the Premier Development Partners, LLC project located
at 6551 Grant Avenue in the City of
Cleveland and Village of Cuyahoga
Heights.
Whereas,
the
State
of
Ohio,
through the Clean Ohio Council, provides financial assistance to local
governments for the purpose of
addressing local needs; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
approves and authorizes the Village
of Cuyahoga Heights to submit a
Clean
Ohio
Revitalization
Fund
application for the remediation and
redevelopment of the Premier Development Partners, LLC project located at 6551 Grant Avenue in the City

253

15
of Cleveland and Village of Cuyahoga Heights, and that the District
1 Integrating Committee of the Ohio
Public Works Commission and the
Clean Ohio Council are encouraged
to fund this innovative and worthwhile project; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports
the
Village
of
Cuyahoga
Heights’ grant application to the
Clean Ohio Council for Clean Ohio
Revitalization Program funds to be
used for the remediation and redevelopment of the Premier Development Partners, LLC project located
at 6551 Grant Avenue in the City of
Cleveland and Village of Cuyahoga
Heights.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to send copies of this
resolution to the Village of Cuyahoga Heights and to Spencer N. Pisczak, President, Premier Development Partners, LLC, 5301 Grant Avenue, Suite 100, Cleveland, Ohio 44125.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Res. No. 272-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution approving the petitions from owners of
property in the Downtown Cleveland
Improvement District; and approving the comprehensive services plan
for the continuation of the operations of the Downtown Cleveland
Improvement District.
Whereas, Chapter 1710 of the Revised Code authorizes the formation of special improvement districts within the boundaries of a
municipality by petition of property owners in a district and approval by the municipality for the
purpose of developing and implementing plans for public improvements and public services that benefit a district; and
Whereas, by Resolution No. 138605 adopted on August 3, 2005, this
Council approved the formation of
the Downtown Cleveland Improvement District (the “District”) and
the Articles of Incorporation of the
Downtown Cleveland Improvement
Corporation, and approved an initial
plan for public services benefitting
all of the District; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
1710.06(B) of the Revised Code, on
August 13, 2009, the board of directors of the Downtown Cleveland
Improvement Corporation submitted
a comprehensive services plan (the
“Plan”) for the continuation of operations of the Downtown Cleveland

16
Improvement District to this Council and the Mayor of the City; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
1710.06(B) of the Revised Code, owners of sixty percent or more of the
front footage of property that abuts
upon any street, alley, public road,
place, boulevard, parkway, park
entrance, easement, or other existing public improvement within the
District excluding certain property
as provided in Section 1701.02(E) of
the Revised Code, have signed a
petition (the “Petition”) requesting
that the City of Cleveland approve
the Plan and have submitted the
Plan as part of the Petition; and
Whereas, the Petition and the
Plan have been filed with the Clerk
of Council and copies have been
delivered to the Mayor of the City;
and
Whereas, under Section 1710.06(B)
of the Revised Code, the Petition is
to be approved or disapproved by
resolution of this Council within
sixty days of the filing of the Petition with the City; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Petition referred to in the preambles of this
resolution and on file in File No.
272-10-A is approved.
Section 2. That the Plan submitted
as part of the Petition is approved.
Section 3. That consistent with the
approval of the Plan, this Council
shall hereafter commence proceedings to provide for special assessments in accordance with the Plan,
which special assessments shall be
levied in accordance with Chapters
727 and 1710 of the Revised Code.
Section 4. That this Council finds
and determines that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
resolution were adopted in an open
meeting of the Council and that all
deliberations of the Council and of
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 5. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 278-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Run for Peace, March
21, 2010, sponsored by Our Lady of
Peace Elementary School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Run for Peace
sponsored by Our Lady of Peace
Elementary School. on March 21,,
2010, with the Race beginning at
the corner of East 126th Street and
Larchmere Avenue on East 126th
St.,
to
Shaker
Boulevard.
The
course will pass Our Lady of Peace
School and St. Luke’s. At Martin
Luther King Blvd., the route will
turn south onto MLK Blvd and proceed past Benedictine High School
to Mt. Auburn Ave. (The route will
turn into Benedictine High School
for a water stop and a loop on the
grounds after which the course will
continue south on MLK Blvd to Mt.
Auburn Ave.) The course will have
a turn around site at MLK Blvd.
and Mt. Auburn Ave. The return
course will proceed north on MLK
Blvd to the north side of Shaker
Blvd and turn right onto Shaker
Blvd (north side) (so that we are
only closing off the west bound
portion of Shaker Blvd.,). At East
126th St., the course turns left onto
East 126 St. for a final loop at the
Our Lady of Peace School on the
corner of East 126th St. and Buckingham Ave. Also, Tot Trot for
children, ages 10 and younger;
route will be the city block of East
126th St., Shaker Blvd., East 128th
St. and Buckingham Ave. The Tot
Trot will start at 126th St. and proceed south on East 126th St. to
Buckingham Ave. The course will
veer to the right and proceed down
Buckingham Ave. The course will
turn left on East 128th and take
another immediate left on Shaker
Blvd. at East 126th St., the route
will turn left and at Buckingham
Ave., the route will end at the finish line, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City
of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

254

March 3, 2010
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED.
Res. No. 273-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Westbrook, Sweeney, Cleveland, Cummins, Mitchell, J. Johnson, Polensek,
Zone, Pruitt, Kelley, Brady, Cimperman, Conwell and Mayor Jackson.
An emergency resolution urging
the Obama Administration to reconsider its decision to exclude the
State of Ohio from receiving TARP
federal funding to support new programs to keep homeowners from losing their properties.
Whereas, the Federal government
has recently announced the availability of $1.5 billion in TARP funding to prevent home owners from
losing their homes to foreclosure;
and
Whereas, the State of Ohio was
excluded from the list of states
which received the special TARP
funding; and
Whereas, Ohio has been highly
impacted by the foreclosure crisis
and was one of the bell weather
states of the foreclosure crisis; and
Whereas, due to the lack of regulatory oversight at the Federal level
of government, much of Ohio’s foreclosures are linked to fraudulent
and predatory loans; and
Whereas, in the last quarter of
2009, 15.7 percent of all Ohio mortgage holders were in foreclosure or
their payments were more than a
month late; and
Whereas, in 2009 Ohio experienced
89,053 commercial and residential
foreclosures; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga County lead
the nation in 2006 with 13,600 residential foreclosures; and
Whereas,
Cuyahoga
County
is
estimated to have 14,000 residential
foreclosures in 2010; and
Whereas, vacant properties degrade and devalue the quality of
life for remaining residents, isolating and weakening the neighborhood, and increasing the likelihood
that property values will continue to
decline; further abandonment will
set in, as demonstrated by a recent
study by CWRU/NEO-CANDO indicating that in the City of Cleveland
properties lose 70% of their value
following foreclosure; and
Whereas, vacant foreclosed properties often become a breeding
ground for crime and fires, and
require a disproportionate amount of
government maintenance, for securing
properties
against
criminal
activity, removal of garbage and
rodents, including elimination of
blight through demolition, all at a
cost to taxpayers; and
Whereas, vacant properties reduce
city tax revenue in three ways: they
are often tax delinquent; their low
value means they generate little in
taxes; and they depress property
values across an entire neighborhood; and
Whereas, the citizens who live in
neighborhoods with many vacant
and
abandoned
properties
have
great difficulty obtaining homeowner’s insurance, mortgages and loans
for home improvements; and
Whereas, due to the flood of foreclosures in Cleveland and other
weak market neighborhoods in Ohio,

March 3, 2010
banks walk away from properties
by not taking back property titles
leaving the property abandoned; and
Whereas, a study commissioned
by Cuyahoga County, conducted by
Cleveland
State
University,
has
found that HUD certified counselors
funded by the county have a 52%
success rate in adverting foreclosures; and
Whereas, foreclosure mitigation
and the potential refinancing of bad
mortgages is a proven tool to reduce
the impacts of the foreclosure crisis;
and
Whereas, the Obama Administration should reconsider its funding
allocation of TARP funds assisting
home owners to prevent foreclosures; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
Urging
the
Obama
Administration
to
reconsider
its
decision to exclude the State of Ohio
from receiving TARP federal funding to support new programs to
keep homeowners from losing their
properties.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to the Honorable Barack Obama, President of
the United States, Governor Ted
Strickland, State of Ohio, U. S. Senator George Voinovich, Ohio, U.S.
Senator Sherrod Brown, Ohio, U.S.
Congressman Dennis Kucinich, 10th
District, Ohio, U.S. Congressman
Steven LaTourette, 19th District,
Ohio, U.S. Congresswoman Marcia
Fudge,
11th
District,
Ohio
and
James Rokakis, Cuyahoga County
Treasurer.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 274-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 1296
West 6th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from Mystery Productions, Inc., DBA Traffic Night
Club & Patios, 1296 West 6th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 6275945 to Struga, Inc., DBA
Sin Nite Club & Patios, 1296 West
6th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permanent Number 8651505; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this

The City Record
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Mystery Productions, Inc., DBA Traffic Night
Club & Patios, 1296 West 6th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 6275945 to Struga, Inc., DBA
Sin Nite Club & Patios, 1296 West
6th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permanent
Number
8651505;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

255

17
Res. No. 275-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
3226 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C2 Liquor Permit at OLA 3226, Inc.,
3226 Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 7527435;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at OLA 3226, Inc.,
3226 Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 6527435,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

18
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 276-10.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 625
East 140th Street, and repealing
Resolution No. 1101-09, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
Moe’s Stop One, Inc., 625 East 140th
Street by Resolution No. 1101-09
adopted by the Council on August 5,
2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Moe’s Stop
One, Inc., 625 East 140th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 6081178 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1101-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 277-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 15015 Ohio Avenue
and repealing Resolution No. 1688-09,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit to 15015
Ohio Avenue by Resolution No. 168809 adopted by the Council on November 16, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit to Leroy Mitchell

The City Record
Investments, LLC, DBA TY Grocery
& Deli, 15015 Ohio Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent Number
6061857, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 168809, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 9-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Mitchell, Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to the Shaker Square
Area Development Corporation to encroach into the public rights-of-way
above Shaker Boulevard and Fairhill
Road by installing and maintaining
4 neighborhood entry signs.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of City Planning Committee; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance, when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 5, strike “sigs”
and insert “signs”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 134-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing, or
otherwise improving the fuel system
at the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance; authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into
one or more public improvement contracts to construct the improvement;
and authorizing the director to
employ one or more professional
consultants necessary to design the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of City Planning Committee; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

256

March 3, 2010
Ord. No. 159-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of building
materials and used paving bricks,
for the various divisions of City government, for the period of one year,
with one option to renew exercisable by the Director of Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 160-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of materials,
parts, and supplies necessary for the
electrical maintenance of facilities,
including labor when necessary, and
for high and medium voltage testing equipment and safety equipment, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period of two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional legislative
authority.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 162-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply for
and accept a grant from the Criminal Justice Services Agency for the
2010 Cleveland Team Approach to
Domestic Violence; and to enter into
one or more contracts with Cuyahoga County and other entities to
implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:45 p.m. to meet on Monday, March 8,
2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

March 3, 2010
BOARD OF CONTROL

February 24, 2010
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, February 24,
2010, at 10:53 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Director Triozzi, Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
Others: James Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Diana Anthony, Interim Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 68-10.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of GM Industrial Inc., dba Chemsafe
International, Inc., for an estimated
quantity of industrial paper products
and cloth wipes, for Group A for all
items and Group B for all items, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period of two years
beginning with the date of execution of the contract, with an option
to renew for one additional year,
received on February 3, 2010, under
the authority of Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $465,461.50, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Finance is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost of
which shall be certified to the contract in the sum of $465,461.50.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders, separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 69-10.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on November 19, 2009
for a cost per copy agreement on
two group V copiers for the Division
of Printing and Reproduction under
the authority of Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are rejected.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,

The City Record
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 70-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on November 18,
2009 for GIS disaster recovery and
storage area network system for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 446-09, passed June
8, 2009, are rejected.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 71-10.
By Director Flask.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Mike Bass Ford, Inc., for
an estimated quantity of one mobile
crime scene unit and related equipment, all items, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety,
for the period of one year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on November 25, 2009,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
2015-07, passed by Cleveland City
Council on January 28, 2008, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to $138,992.00
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Safety is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in the
sum of $138,992.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 72-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 118-22-060, located
at 2226 East 70th Street under the
Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1514-09
passed November 23, 2009, autho-

257

19
rized the sale of the parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, John Truett and Marie
Truett have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1514-09 passed November 23, 2009, by
the Cleveland City Council, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with John
Truett and Marie Truett for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel No. 118-22-060, as described in the
Ordinance according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$400.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 73-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, Section 183.024, Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire certain properties owned by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Fannie Mae,
each for a price determined as Fair
Market Value, as part of the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 183.024, the City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 130-22067, located at 3435 East 121st Street
from HUD; and
Whereas, Two Brothers Rehab and
Renovation LLC has proposed to the
City to purchase the property for
rehabilitation and/or redevelopment;
and
Whereas, Section 183.024 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by
the Director of Community Development, and with the prior written
consent of the Council member(s) in
whose ward the property acquired
from HUD or Fannie Mae to be sold
is located, to convey the property to
purchasers for the public purpose of
rehabilitation and/or resale for consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than fair market value; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Section 183.024,
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the consideration for the

20
sale of Permanent Parcel No. 130-22067 to Two Brothers Rehab and
Renovation LLC is established as
$375.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than fair market
value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 74-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, Section 183.024, Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire certain properties owned by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Fannie Mae,
each for a price determined as Fair
Market Value, as part of the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 183.024, the City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 132-30004, located at 6821 Berdelle from
HUD; and
Whereas, Slavic Village Development has proposed to the City to
purchase the property for rehabilitation and/or redevelopment; and
Whereas, Section 183.024 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by
the Director of Community Development, and with the prior written
consent of the Council member(s) in
whose ward the property acquired
from HUD or Fannie Mae to be sold
is located, to convey the property to
purchasers for the public purpose of
rehabilitation and/or resale for consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than fair market value; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Section 183.024,
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the consideration for the
sale of Permanent Parcel No. 132-30004 to Slavic Village Development is
established as $375.00, which amount
is determined to be not less than
fair market value taking into account such terms and conditions,
restrictions and covenants as are
deemed necessary or appropriate.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 75-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October

The City Record
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, Section 183.024, Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire certain properties owned by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Fannie Mae,
each for a price determined as Fair
Market Value, as part of the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 183.024, the City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 110-05102, located at 693 East 118th Street
from HUD; and
Whereas, Glenville Development
Corporation has proposed to the City
to purchase the property for rehabilitation and/or redevelopment; and
Whereas, Section 183.024 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by
the Director of Community Development, and with the prior written
consent of the Council member(s) in
whose ward the property acquired
from HUD or Fannie Mae to be sold
is located, to convey the property to
purchasers for the public purpose of
rehabilitation and/or resale for consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than fair market value; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Section 183.024,
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the consideration for the
sale of Permanent Parcel No. 110-05102 to Glenville Development Corporation is established as $375.00,
which amount is determined to be
not less than fair market value taking into account such terms and conditions, restrictions and covenants
as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 76-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according to the provisions
of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 109-24-052 located at 1272 East
111th Street in Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Mary E. Wade, Trustee,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has
proposed to the City to purchase and

258

March 3, 2010
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
The member of Council from
Ward 9 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Mary E. Wade,
Trustee for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 10924-052 located at 1272 East 111th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 77-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 207676 passed October 25, 1976, the City
is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program (“Program”) according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 126-08-048 located at 9003 Capital
Avenue in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Yvette Johnson Colvin,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,

The City Record

March 3, 2010
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland,
with
Yvette
Johnson
Colvin for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 126-08-048
located at 9003 Capital Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 78-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 207676 passed October 25, 1976, the City
is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program (“Program”) according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 119-21-038 located at 2115 East
81st Street in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, John E. Butler, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with John E. Butler for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 119-21-038 located at
2115 East 81st Street, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in

21

such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Withers,
R. Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Acting Director Riccardi.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Acting
Director West and Director Nichols.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.

26

WR

Senior Clerk

(Open)

27

WR

Senior Personnel
Assistant
(Open)

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the following:
Lease – from rental agency.
Lease – from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.

EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.

Bank statements (Within last three
months).

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.

Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE

Voter registration cards.

____________
Birth certificates.
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2010
3/12/2010 — 3/18/2010
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Exam
Type

Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

21

WR

Assistant Personnel
Administrator
(Open)

22

WR

Custodial Worker
Supervisor
(Open)

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 21

23

EE

Electrical Safety
(Open)
Inspector III

ASSISTANT PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATOR (OPEN)

24

WR

Junior Personnel
Assistant
(Open)

25

WR

Personnel
Assistant

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.

259

(Open)

The City Record

22
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $20,800.00 - $54,163.56 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MARCH 18, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, assists
in the planning, coordinating, and
supervising of personnel administration activities within a City department or division. Advises and
monitors supervisors concerning adherence to various personnel policies, procedures, and practices. Performs various clerical functions and
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operation and safety
policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations
and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Business/Public Administration, Secretarial Science, or closely related
field is required. Three years of full
time paid progressively responsible
experience in Human Resources and
Employee Relations or a comparable
field is required. (Substitution: Two
years of directly related experience
may substitute for each year of postsecondary education lacking.)

NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee (Cash or Money Order
ONLY). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education
or failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded
to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in writing made within ten (10) days after the date of
examination. Any applicant who can
provide proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 22
CUSTODIAL WORKER SUPERVISOR
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $10.00 - $19.72 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP ON
THE FOLLOWING DATES IN THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE
TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MARCH 18, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY

260

March 3, 2010
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, directs
and assigns the work performed by
Custodial Workers. Performs custodial tasks. Maintains inventory of
cleaning supplies and tools. Trains
employees in correct safety procedures, policies, and cleaning methods.
Performs
other
job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of housekeeping training as well as two years of
full time paid managerial or supervisory experience is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLAR) filing fee (Cash or Money Order
ONLY). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education
or failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded
to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in writing made within ten (10) days after the date of
examination. Any applicant who can
provide proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 23
ELECTRICAL SAFETY INSPECTOR
III (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance

The City Record

March 3, 2010
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $30,846.40 - $55,307.20 per
year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP ON
THE FOLLOWING DATES IN THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE
TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MARCH 18, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision of the Commissioner of Code Enforcement, makes
inspections of residential and commercial buildings and structures, for
the purposes of ensuring compliance
with laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations relating to the design,
installation, maintenance, alteration,
repair, relocation, replacement, addition to, use, and inspection of electrical components, equipment and
systems used in buildings and structures. Performs related duties as
required that pertain to enforcement
of the Cleveland Housing Code,
Cleveland
Building
Code,
Ohio
Building Code, Residential Code of
Ohio, and the National Electric
Code. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
(Note: This classification utilizes
the working titles of Electrical Safe-

ty Inspector I, II, III, or IV depending on the certifications held. Also,
employees must be in each level at
least one year before going on to
the next level.) A High School
Diploma or GED is required. One of
the following is required: (1) Must
be a Journeyman Electrician or
equivalent for four years, two as an
Electrician Unit Leader, and two
years as a building department ESI
trainee; (2) Must be a Journeyman
Electrician or equivalent for four
years and three years experience as
a building department ESI trainee;
(3) Must have four years experience
as
a
building
department
ESI
trainee; (4) Must be a Journeyman
Electrician or equivalent for six
years; or (5) Must be an Electrical
Engineer registered in the State of
Ohio. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required. A State of Ohio
Board of Building Standards (OBBS)
certification as an Electrical Safety
Inspector certification is required
and must be maintained throughout
employment, in addition to the
above. Electrical Safety Inspector
III: Must have passed the B-1 Residential Building Inspector examination through the ICC or the 1A
Building One-and Two-Family Dwelling through the NCPCCI per the
inspector incentive schedule.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLAR) filing fee (Cash or Money Order
ONLY). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education
or failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded
to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in writing made within ten (10) days after the date of
examination. Any applicant who can
provide proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 24
JUNIOR
(OPEN)

PERSONNEL

ASSISTANT

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleve-

261

23
land is
year.

$20,800.00

-

$38,221.13

per

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP ON
THE FOLLOWING DATES IN THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE
TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MARCH 18, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under immediate supervision, provides assistance with routine duties
in areas related to Human Resources, Payroll, and Civil Service.
Assists with general clerical tasks.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXMINATION
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS.
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One (1) year of full time
paid
experience
in
Human
Resources (Payroll, Personnel Administration, and/or Labor Relations),
Employee Training & Development,
Public Relations, or other business
related field is required. Must be
computer literate.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 filing fee (TEN DOLLAR) (Cash or Money Order ONLY).
Applicants who are currently employed in this position with the City
of Cleveland are exempt. However,
that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such

The City Record

24
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant upon the applicant’s request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide proof of unemployment, public
assistance, or indigence is exempt
from the filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland and
who received passing Scores shall
have ten (10) additional points
added to their grades. See list of
acceptable forms of proof of residency applicants need to present at
the time of filing accompanying
application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 25
PERSONNEL ASSISTANT (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $20,800.00 - $46,057.09 per
year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP ON
THE FOLLOWING DATES IN THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE
TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MARCH 18 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, maintains divisional or departmental personnel and
EEO records. Prepares or assists in
the preparation of personnel and/or
MBE/FBE
forms,
reports,
and
records. Performs general clerical
duties. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies. Attends
and participates in operations and
safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration
of competence may be determined
by exam.) Wears and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXMINATION
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS.
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of full time
paid
experience
in
Human
Resources, Personnel, Civil Service, or
other administrative office is required. Must be proficient in computer and software skills (Microsoft
Office Suites). Must possess excellent written and verbal communication skills. Must be able to lift and
carry a minimum of twenty (20)
pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLAR) filing fee (Cash or Money Order
ONLY). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education
or failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded
to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in writing made within ten (10) days after the date of
examination. Any applicant who can
provide proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 26

March 3, 2010
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for
this position as established by
Ordinance of the Council of the
City of Cleveland is $10.29 - $16.10
per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
ON THE FOLLOWING DATES TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MARCH, 18, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under immediate supervision, performs responsible work in the maintaining of office records and conducts other office procedures. In
some cases, supervises a small
group of employees concerned with
routine office work. Calculates, prepares, and processes bills, invoices,
and other financial records, according to established procedures. Maintains computerized and other office
records and logs. Performs receptionist duties as needed. Performs
related work as required. Follows
all operations and safety policies.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXMINATION
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS.

SENIOR CLERK (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.

262

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Three years of full time
paid clerical experience is required.
Should have a working knowledge
of computers and good customer service skills.

The City Record

March 3, 2010
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLAR) filing fee (Cash or Money Order
ONLY). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education
or failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded
to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in writing made within ten (10) days after the date of
examination. Any applicant who can
provide proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 27
SENIOR
(OPEN)

PERSONNEL

ASSISTANT

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.

TAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

9:30 A.M.

Under supervision, processes wage,
benefit, and other personnel transactions.
Tracks
employee
status
changes and processes personnel
information documents. Prepares, or
assists in preparation of, employee
payroll reports and benefit forms.
Maintains various personnel records
and prepares periodic reports. Prepares written correspondence. Performs other job related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Five years of full time
paid administrative experience and
a minimum of one (1) year experience in personnel wages and benefits is required. Must have a working knowledge of Microsoft Office
software and general office equipment.

SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $20,800.00 - $48,701.54 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP ON
THE FOLLOWING DATES IN THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE
TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MARCH 18, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CON-

25

NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLAR) filing fee (Cash or Money Order
ONLY). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education
or failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded
to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in writing made within ten (10) days after the date of
examination. Any applicant who can
provide proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

MONDAY, MARCH 15, 2010

Calendar No. 10-16: 16208 St. Clair
Avenue (Ward 11)
Najib Chedid, owner, appeals for a
new 24 hours daily use for a drivethrough lane on an existing food
mart and a 104 feet high wind turbine to be permitted on an irregular
shaped, acreage parcel in a C2 Local
Retail Business District; and the limitations of Section 347.16(g)(6), prohibit a retail sales use from a drivethrough lane between the hours of
11:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. daily where
it abuts a residential district; and
contrary to Section 354A.04(b)(1), the
ground wind turbine is proposed at a
distance of 53 feet where 114 feet is
the
minimum
setback
distance
required to equal 1.1 times the height
of the turbine from all property line,
street right-of-way line and utility
line and no portion of a rotor blade
shall extend closer than 5 feet to the
utility line; and a wind turbine in a
commercial district shall be setback
from a residential district 2 times its
height, and a distance of approximately 155 feet is proposed where 208
feet is required in order to comply
with Section 354.04(b)(2); and the
provisions in Sections 354.07(a)(6)
and (8) require a statement from an
Ohio licensed engineer, certifying
structural soundness, a noise control
standard with respect to nearby residential use, and statements indicating the estimated costs for construction and also for the demolition and
removal of the wind turbine as stated in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-20: 4407 West 139th
Street (Ward 18)
Delijana Pekurar, owner, appeals
to erect a frame play house on a 39'
x 130' parcel in an A1 One-Family
District at a distance of 15 inches
from the north property line, where
accessory uses and buildings permitted in a Residence District shall
be located a minimum of 18 inches
from all property lines and at least
10 feet from any main building on
an adjoining lot, according to Section 337.23 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-24: 2021 West 11th
Street (Ward 3)
David F. Perse, owner, appeals to
erect a 2-story single family residence on a 75' x 117.30' corner parcel in a C1 Multi-Family District;
contrary to the provisions in Section
355.05, a maximum gross floor area
of 5,284 square feet is provided and
4,398.7 square feet is required; and
subject to the limitations of Section
355.05, a trash and yard grill is not
a permitted interior side yard encroachment;
and
a
professional
stamped survey approved by the
Division of Engineering and Construction showing swale, elevations,
utilities, driveway apron details and
locations is required in accordance
with Section 327.02(e) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

March 3, 2010

263

The City Record

26

March 3, 2010

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

use for body piercing and tattooing
in an existing building in a Local
Retail Business District.

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2010

The following appeal heard by the
Board on February 8, 2010 was
adopted and approved on March 1,
2010.

At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
1, 2010, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 10-15: 13813 Lorain
Avenue
Joseph Coreno, owner, and Richard
Eucker, tenant, d.b.a. The Closing
Room, appealed from the recommendation of the Public Safety Department to disapprove a Music License.
Calendar No. 09-255: 6021 Memphis
Avenue
James Souris appealed to change
from a gas station to a restaurant
the use of a one-story building on a
corner parcel in a Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 09-266: 18605 Flamingo
Avenue
Mack Cameron appealed to erect a
wheelchair ramp to a single family
dwelling in an A1 One-Family District.
The following appeal was Denied:

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 2010
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 10-9: 13600 Deise Avenue (Ward 10)
Northern Lakes Management Company, owner, and Northern Ohio Scrap
Services, lessee, appealed to establish
a scrap metal processing facility and
open yard storage of scrap metal with
an industrialized unit office building;
subject to conditions.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

None.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

None.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 10-4: Appeal of Khalil
Abduilatt — Revocation of Second Hand Dealer’s License, 9824
Miles Avenue postponed to March
29, 2010.
Calendar No. 10-7: Appeal of Victor
Simmons — Revocation of Second
Hand Dealer’s License, 6218 St.
Clair Avenue postponed to March
29, 2010.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

None.
The following appeals heard by the
Board on February 22, 2010 were adopted and approved on March 1, 2010.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 10-11: 2124-2190 Brookpark Road (Ward 13)
Lodar, Inc., owner, and Cicogna
Sign Company, agent, appealed to
erect a double faced, 25 foot high,
illuminated, steel gauge shopping
Center identification sign in a SemiIndustry District.
Calendar No. 10-13: 1610 East 105th
Street (Ward 8)
Veterans Development LLC appealed to construct a nine-story
parking garage in a General retail
business District.
Calendar No. 09-232: 15701 Waterloo
Road (Ward 11)
Eric Kunde, owner, and Chris McNeill, tenant, appealed to establish

submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or

264

File No. 41-2010 — Purchase of Electrical Items, Materials, Parts and
Equipment, for the various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as authorized
by Ordinance pending, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, MARCH 8, 2010 AT 10:30
A.M. THE CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM 128,
601
LAKESIDE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
File No. 42-2010 — Department of
Community Development Elevator Modernization for the North
Point Transitional Men’s Shelter,
for the Division of Architecture,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance Nos. 86908, 531-07 and 1946-07, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, July 7, 2008, April 26, 2007
and November 27, 2007, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER (NO
COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
MEETING
TUESDAY,
PRE-BID
MARCH 9, 2010 AT 2:00 P.M. THE
NORTH POINT INN BUILDING,
1550 SUPERIOR AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
February 24, 2010 and March 3, 2010

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 216-10.
By Council Members Conwell, Brancatelli, Miller, Brady, Polensek, J.
Johnson, Zone, Westbrook, Sweeney,
Cimperman,
Cleveland,
Cummins,
Dow, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Mitchell, Pruitt and Reed.
An emergency resolution urging
passage of Senate Bill 30 of the
128th Ohio General Assembly that
would require arson offenders to
register personally with the Attorney General.
Whereas, Senate Bill 30, sponsored
by Senator Tim Schaffer and cosponsored by Senators Dale Miller,
Bob Gibbs, and Jim Hughes, would
require arson offenders to register
personally with the Attorney General; and

March 3, 2010
Whereas, Senate Bill 30 was introduced in the 128th General Assembly on February 10, 2009 by bipartisan cosponsors, and is assigned to
the Judiciary Criminal Justice Committee; and
Whereas, during 2009, the year of
the bill’s introduction, the City of
Cleveland, Department of Public
Safety, alone reported 404 arson
offenses to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation; and
Whereas, arson incidents in Cleveland school buildings rose over 100
percent in 2009, from 58 in 2008 to
141 in 2009; and
Whereas, the citizens of the City
of Cleveland have experienced devastating home losses and damage,
and even deaths as a result of
recent arsons; and
Whereas, the scope of damage
from arson is increasing due to
vacant and abandoned structures in
our community; and
Whereas, passage of Senate Bill
30 would send a strong anti-arson
message and discourage the increasing number of arsons; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
passage of Senate Bill 30 of the
128th Ohio General Assembly that
would require arson offenders to
register personally with the Attorney General.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
Senators Tim Schaffer, Dale Miller,
Bob Gibbs, Jim Hughes and Mayor
Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

Res. No. 217-10.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of liquor license
of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
6203 Superior Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of liquor license of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit from Yash
Kush, Inc., DBA Superior Beverage,
6029 Superior Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
9820735 to Yash Kush, Inc., DBA
Superior Beverage, 6203 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 98207350001; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best

The City Record
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of liquor license of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Yash Kush, Inc.,
DBA Superior Beverage, 6029 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 9820735 to Yash
Kush, Inc., DBA Superior Beverage,
6203 Superior Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
98207350001, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

Res. No. 218-10.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
1900 Euclid Avenue.

265

27
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Shiva Shakti,
LLC, DBA K & Y Convenient, 1900
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 8093985;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Shiva Shakti, LLC,
DBA K & Y Convenient, 1900 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 8093985, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

28
Res. No. 219-10.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
stock of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3344 East 116th Street and
repealing Resolution No. 24-2010,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of stock of
a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to 3344 East
116th Inc., DBA Kinsman Supermarket, 3344 East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent No.
89166090005, by Resolution No. 242010 adopted by the Council on January 11, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 3344 East
116th Inc., DBA Kinsman Supermarket, 3344 East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent No.
89166090005 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 242010, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

Res. No. 220-10.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 6101 Memphis
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit from Shernkev, Inc., DBA
Trio Tavern, 6101 Memphis Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent
Number 8079254 to Cal Ger, LLC,
DBA Memphis Station, 6101 Memphis
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent Number 1184084; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health

The City Record
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Shernkev, Inc., DBA Trio
Tavern, 6101 Memphis Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent Number
8079254 to Cal Ger, LLC, DBA Memphis Station, 6101 Memphis Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent
Number 1184084; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

Res. No. 222-10.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 12515-19 St. Clair Avenue, and
repealing Resolution No. 1166-09,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to Roscoe, Inc., DBA Honey Do
Club, 12515-19 St. Clair Avenue by
Resolution No. 1166-09 adopted by
the Council on August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure provid-

266

March 3, 2010
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
Roscoe, Inc., DBA Honey Do Club,
12515-19 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44108,
Permanent
Number
7514486 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 116609, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

Res. No. 223-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 4102-04 Lee
Road, and repealing Resolution No.
959-09, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 Liquor Permit to Club E Inc.,
DBA Club E, 4102-04 Lee Road by
Resolution No. 959-09 adopted by the
Council on August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to Club E Inc., DBA
Club E, 4102-04 Lee Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent Number 1572238 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 959-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

Res. No. 224-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
3831 East 93rd Street.

March 3, 2010
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at New Star Market, Ltd., 3831 East 93rd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 6379708; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at New Star Market,
Ltd., 3831 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
6379708; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

The City Record
Res. No. 225-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 2044
West 65th Street, and repealing Resolution No. 963-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to Abdelsalam Ali, DBA A & F Food Market,
2044 West 65th Street by Resolution
No. 963-09 adopted by the Council on
July 1, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Abdelsalam
Ali, DBA A & F Food Market, 2044
West 65th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 0117346 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 963-09, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

Res. No. 226-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
3609 Community College Boulevard.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Community
Supermarket, Inc., DBA Mike’s Food
Market, 3609 Community College
Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44115,
Permanent Number 1669840; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented rea-

267

29
sonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Community Supermarket, Inc., DBA Mike’s Food Market, 3609 Community College Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 1669840; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

Ord. No. 1784-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more Leases By
Way of Concession for the use of certain City-owned property known as
Ninth Street Lots Nos. 9 and 10 for the
use, privilege, permit, and license to
operate special event parking and to
collect fees in connection with special
event parking.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
Section 183.03 or any other provision
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter one or more Leases

30
By Way of Concession on the basis
of competitive proposals for the use,
privilege, permit, and license to
operate special event parking and to
collect fees in connection with special event parking at certain Cityowned property known as Ninth
Street Lots Nos. 9 and 10. The Leases by Way of Concession shall be
with the highest and best bidder as
determined and approved by the
Board of Control after competitive
bidding and advertising as provided
by Section 108 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland. The Leases By
Way of Concession shall not exceed
a term of one year, unless a Master
Parking Plan is implemented before
the one-year term has expired. If a
Master Parking Plan is implemented, the leases that are the subject
of this ordinance shall be a part of
that Master Parking Plan along
with all other eligible agreements
and properties.
Section 2. That the Lease or Leases by Way of Concession shall
include provisions stating that the
Lessee or Lessees shall pay the City
one hundred percent of the parking
revenues in excess of Three Hundred Seventy Dollars ($370.00) per
special event, plus any applicable
sales and parking tax due any taxing authorities in connection with
such parking revenues. The Lease
or Leases by Way of Concession
shall not be construed as the conveyance of any right, title or interest in public property but merely as
the granting of the privilege to use
the property for the purposes described in the Lease or Leases by
Way of Concession.
Section 3. That the Lease or Leases By Way of Concession shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

Ord. No. 1785-09.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
the United States of America, acting
by and through the U.S. Coast Guard
for the lease of certain City-owned
property known as Ninth Street Lot
Nos. 9 and 10 to be used for government purposes, including parking, for
the Department of Port Control, for a
period of one year with three one-year
options to renew, the second of which
is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
Lease Agreement (“Lease”) with the
United States of America, acting by
and through the U.S. Coast Guard
(“Lessee”) for certain City-owned
property known as Ninth Street Lot
Nos. 9 and 10 to be used for government purposes, including parking
(“Leased Premises”), excluding special events. The term of the Lease
shall be for a one year period, commencing October 1, 2009, with three
one-year options to renew. The first
of the one-year options to renew may
be exercised by the Director of Port
Control, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of this
Council. The second of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative
authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the second of the one-year options to renew
is exercised, then the third of the oneyear options to renew may be exercisable at the option of the Director
of Port Control, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority
of this Council. For use of the Leased
Premises, Lessee shall pay the City
an annual rate of $30,600, which may
be paid quarterly.
Section 2. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

March 3, 2010
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 22, 2010.
Effective February 25, 2010.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Thursday, February 25, 2010
9:00 a.m.
General Fund Budget Hearings:
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
Authorized Absence: Mitchell.
Friday, February 26, 2010
9:00 a.m.
General Fund Budget Hearings:
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney,
Chair;
Kelley,
Vice
Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Keane, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Cleveland.
Monday, March 1, 2010
2:00 p.m.
Public
Service
Committee
and
Finance Committee: Present in Service: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, Polensek,
Pruitt, Sweeney. Authorized Absence:
K. Johnson, Keane. Pro tempore:
Mitchell, Kelley.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Keane. Pro tempore:
J. Johnson.
2:00 p.m.

Ord. No. 212-10.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Louise Laffitte for professional services to
assist with legislative and policy
research for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Louise Laffitte for
professional services to assist with
legislative and policy research for
Cleveland City Council. This agreement shall be entered into as of
March 1, 2010 and shall terminate
February 28, 2011. The agreement
shall be certified for $24,960.00 from
fund number 01, subfund 001, account 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

268

Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
Tuesday, March 2, 2010
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee, City Planning
Committee and Legislation Committee: Present in CDED: Brancatelli,
Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman,
Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt,
Westbrook, Zone.
Present in Planning: Cleveland,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brady,
Dow, Zone. Authorized Absence: Conwell, Keane. Pro tempore: Mitchell,
Miller, J. Johnson.
Present in Legislation: Mitchell,
Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman, Sweeney. Authorized Absence: K. Johnson, Vice Chair; Reed, Cleveland.
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.

The City Record

March 3, 2010

31

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Clerk of Council - professional services - Louise Laffitte (O 212-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Consent agreement Willow Avenue Lift Bridge (O 265-10) 247

Board of Control - Community Development Department
Berdelle Avenue, 6821 (Ward 12) - PPN 132-30-004 - HUD/Fannie Mae property - Slavic
Village Development (BOC Res. 74-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
Capital Avenue, 9003 (Ward 6) - PPN 126-08-048 - Yvette Johnson Colvin (BOC Res. 77-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
East 111th Street, 1272 (Ward 9) - PPN 109-24-052 - Mary E. Wade, Trustee (BOC Res. 76-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
East 118th Street, 693 (Ward 9) - PPN 110-05-102 - HUD/Fannie Mae property - Glenville
Development Corporation (BOC Res. 75-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
East 121st Street, 3435 (Ward 14) - PPN 130-22-067 - HUD/Fannie Mae property - Two
Brothers Rehab and Renovation, LLC (BOC Res. 73-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257
East 70th Street, 2226 (Ward 5) - PPN 118-22-060 - John Truett and Marie Truet per Ord.
1514-09 (BOC Res. 72-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257
East 81st Street, 2115 (Ward 6) - PPN 119-21-038 - John E. Butler (BOC Res. 78-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259

Board of Control - Finance Department
Copiers, Group V - per C.O. Sec. 181.101 - all bids rejected - Division of Printing and
Reproduction (BOC Res. 69-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257
Paper products, industrial and cloth wipes - per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to GM Industrial Inc.,
d.b.a., Chemsafe International, Inc. (BOC Res. 68-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program
Berdelle Avenue, 6821 (Ward 12) - PPN 132-30-004 - HUD/Fannie Mae property - Slavic
Village Development (BOC Res. 74-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
Capital Avenue, 9003 (Ward 6) - PPN 126-08-048 - Yvette Johnson Colvin (BOC Res. 77-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
East 111th Street, 1272 (Ward 9) - PPN 109-24-052 - Mary E. Wade, Trustee (BOC Res. 76-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
East 118th Street, 693 (Ward 9) - PPN 110-05-102 - HUD/Fannie Mae property - Glenville
Development Corporation (BOC Res. 75-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
East 121st Street, 3435 (Ward 14) - PPN 130-22-067 - HUD/Fannie Mae property - Two
Brothers Rehab and Renovation, LLC (BOC Res. 73-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257
East 70th Street, 2226 (Ward 5) - PPN 118-22-060 - John Truett and Marie Truet per Ord.
1514-09 (BOC Res. 72-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257
East 81st Street, 2115 (Ward 6) - PPN 119-21-038 - John E. Butler (BOC Res. 78-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 4)
East 121st Street, 3435 (Ward 14) - PPN 130-22-067 - HUD/Fannie Mae property - Two
Brothers Rehab and Renovation, LLC (BOC Res. 73-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 5)
East 70th Street, 2226 (Ward 5) - PPN 118-22-060 - John Truett and Marie Truet per Ord.
1514-09 (BOC Res. 72-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 6)
Capital Avenue, 9003 (Ward 6) - PPN 126-08-048 - Yvette Johnson Colvin (BOC Res. 77-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
East 81st Street, 2115 (Ward 6) - PPN 119-21-038 - John E. Butler (BOC Res. 78-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 9)
East 111th Street, 1272 (Ward 9) - PPN 109-24-052 - Mary E. Wade, Trustee (BOC Res. 76-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
East 118th Street, 693 (Ward 9) - PPN 110-05-102 - HUD/Fannie Mae property - Glenville
Development Corporation (BOC Res. 75-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258

269

The City Record

32

March 3, 2010

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 12)
Berdelle Avenue, 6821 (Ward 12) - PPN 132-30-004 - HUD/Fannie Mae property - Slavic
Village Development (BOC Res. 74-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258

Board of Control - Police Division
Crime scene unit, mobile and related equipment - per Ord. 2015-07 to Mike Bass Ford, Inc.
- Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 71-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Board of Control - Printing and Reproduction Division
Copiers, Group V - per C.O. Sec. 181.101 - all bids rejected - Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 69-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Board of Control - Public Safety Department
Crime scene unit, mobile and related equipment - per Ord. 2015-07 to Mike Bass Ford, Inc.
- Division of Police (BOC Res. 71-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Board of Control - Public Utilities Department
GIS disaster recovery and storage area network system - per Ord. 446-09 - all bids
rejected - Division of Water (BOC Res. 70-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Crime scene unit, mobile and related equipment - per Ord. 2015-07 to Mike Bass Ford, Inc.
- Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 71-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257
Paper products, industrial and cloth wipes - per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to GM Industrial Inc.,
d.b.a., Chemsafe International, Inc. - Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 68-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Board of Control - Water Division
GIS disaster recovery and storage area network system - per Ord. 446-09 - all bids
rejected - Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 70-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257

Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Brookpark Road, 2124-2190, (Ward 13) – Lodar, Inc., owner and Cicogna Sign Company, agent
- appeal granted and adopted on 3/1/10 (Cal. 10-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Deise Avenue, 13600, (Ward 10) – Northern Lakes Management Company, ownerand
Northern Ohio Scrap Services, lessee - appeal granted and adopted on 3/1/10 (Cal. 10-9) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
East 105th Street, 1610, (Ward 8) – Veterans Development LLC, owner - appeal granted and
adopted on 3/1/10 (Cal. 10-13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Flamingo Avenue, 18605, (Ward 19/21) – Mack Cameron, owner - appeal heard on 3/1/10
(Cal. 09-266) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Lorain Avenue, 13813, (Ward 18) – Joseph Coreno, owner, and Richard Eucker, tenant
d.b.a., The Closing Room - appeal heard on 3/1/10 (Cal. 10-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Memphis Avenue, 6021, (Ward 13) – James Souris, owner - appeal heard on 3/1/10 (Cal. 09-255) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Miles Avenue, 9824, (Ward 2) – Khalil Abduilatt, owner - appeal postponed to 3/29/10 on
3/1/10 (Cal. 10-4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
St. Clair Avenue, 6218, (Ward 7) – Victor Simmons, owner - appeal postponed to 3/29/10
on 3/1/10 (Cal. 10-7) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Waterloo Road, 15701, (Ward 11) – Eric Kunde, owner and Chris McNeill, tenant - appeal
granted and adopted on 3/1/10 (Cal. 09-232) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
St. Clair Avenue, 16208, (Ward 11) – Najib Chedid, owner - appeal to be heard on 3/15/10
(Cal. 10-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263
West 11th Street, 2021, (Ward 3) – David F. Perse, owner - appeal to be heard on 3/15/10
(Cal. 10-24) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263
West 139th Street, 4407, (Ward 18) – Delijana Pekurar, owner - appeal to be heard
on 3/15/10 (Cal. 10-20) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263

Bridges
Consent agreement Willow Avenue Lift Bridge (O 265-10)

270

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

The City Record

March 3, 2010

33

City Clerk
Professional services - Louise Laffitte (O 212-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268

City of Cleveland Bids
Electrical items, materials, parts and equipment - Department of Finance - per Ord.
pending - bid due March 17, 2010 (advertised 2/24/2010 and 3/3/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Elevator modernization for North Point Transitional Men’s Shelter - Department of Public
Service - Division of Architecture - per Ord. 531-07, 1946-07, 869-08 - bid due
March 17, 2010 (advertised 2/24/2010 and 3/3/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Clerk of Council
Agreement - professional services - Louise Laffitte (O 212-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268

Cleveland State University
Euclid Ave. - encroachment into right-of-way - installing, using, and maintaining dual
12-inch chilled water lines (Ward 08) (O 263-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246

Community Development
East 119th St. & Miles Ave. - PPN 138-13-008 / 009 / 080 - Land Reutilization Program Union Miles Development Corp. (Ward 02) (O 271-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 252
Lee Rd., 4345 - PPN 143-05-013 - Land Reutilization Program - Union Miles Development Corp.
(Ward 01) (O 270-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 252

St. John’s West Family Homes, L.P. - various sites - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 05)
(O 269-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Condolence Resolutions
Brittenum, Donald F. M.D. (R 291-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

Jackson, Willie James (R 286-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Jenkins, Annette Mari (R 287-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Pryatel, Judge August (R 292-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Williams, Nathaniel Emmanuel (R 289-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Woodard, Claudette (R 290-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Young, Dr. Edward (R 288-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

Congratulations Resolutions
Bongorno, Richard P. (R 295-10)
DeGrandis, Fred M (R 293-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

Ertle II, Karl J. (R 294-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Dobrovic, George (R 296-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

Gulley, Pastor Stephen M. (R 300-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

Holody, Jonathan (R 297-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Rose, Sandra Henighan (R 299-10)
Tufts, Addie Bee (R 298-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

Contracts
Clerk of Council - agreement - professional services - Louise Laffitte (O 212-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Electrical maintenance & materials - various divisions of City government (O 160-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
Lease Agreement with U.S. Coast Guard - Ninth Street Lots Nos. 9 & 10 (used for government
purposes, including Parking) (O 1785-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Lease By Way of Concession - Ninth Street Lots Nos. 9 & 10 - special event parking
(O 1784-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267
Requirement contracts of building materials (used paving bricks)- various divisions of
City government (O 159-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

Service Dept. - public improvement - professional services - Harvard Yards fuel
tanks (O 134-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

Cuyahoga County
Cleveland Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2010 - Grant - Criminal Justice Services
Agency - Law Department (O 162-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

271

The City Record

34

March 3, 2010

Economic Development Department
Appropriate UDAG funds for NEHST to use as a loan guarantee (O 267-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249
Cuyahoga Heights Clean Ohio Grant application - project located at 6551 Grant Ave. (R 268-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Encroachments
Euclid Ave. - right-of-way - Euclid Corridor Project area (underground vaults) (O 262-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
Euclid Ave. - right-of-way - installing, using, and maintaining dual 12-inch chilled water
lines - CSU (Ward 08) (O 263-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
Shaker Square Area Development Corporation - right-of-way - Shaker Blvd. & Fairhill Rd.
- installing & maintaining 4 neighborhood entry signs (O 9-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

Finance Department
2010 Water Bonds - water meters (O 261-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approve petitions for Special Improvement District - (Downtown Cleveland) (R 272-10) .
Contracts for electrical maintenance & materials - various divisions of City government
(O 160-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Requirement contracts of building materials (used paving bricks)- various divisions of
City government (O 159-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

Grants
Cleveland Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2010 - Criminal Justice Services Agency Law Department (O 162-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
Community Development Grant (Drop Off)Program, 2010 - Ohio Department of Natural Resources
(O 264-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
Cuyahoga Heights Clean Ohio Grant application - project located at 6551 Grant Ave. (R 268-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Land Reutilization Program
East 119th St. & Miles Ave. - PPN 138-13-008 / 009 / 080 - Union Miles Development Corp.
(Ward 02) (O 271-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 252
Lee Rd., 4345 - PPN 143-05-013 - Union Miles Development Corp. (Ward 01) (O 270-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 252
St. John’s West Family Homes, L.P. - various sites - (Ward 05) (O 269-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Law Department
Cleveland Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2010 - Grant - Criminal Justice Services
Agency (O 162-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

Lease
Seneca Golf Course and adjacent property to Cleveland Metroparks (O 266-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

Lease Agreement
U.S. Coast Guard - Ninth Street Lots Nos. 9 & 10 (used for government purposes, including
Parking) (O 1785-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268

Lease by Way of Concession
Ninth Street Lots Nos. 9 & 10 - special event parking - Port Control (O 1784-09)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

Liquor Permits
Clark Ave., 3226 - objection to issuance ( Ward 14) (R 275-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community College Blvd., 3609 - objection to issuance (Ward 05) (R 226-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th St., 3344 - withdraw objection to transfer of stock - repeal Res. 24-2010 (Ward
04) (R 219-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th St., 625 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1101-09 (Ward 10)
(R 276-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th St., 831 - transfer of ownership application (Ward 10) (F 283-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd St., 3831 - objection to issuance (Ward 02) (R 224-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 1900 - objection to issuance (Ward 08) (R 218-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 6687 (1st. fl. & patio)- new application (Ward 03) (F 281-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 6687 (1st. fl. & patio)- transfer of location application (Ward 03) (F 280-10) . .
Lee Rd., 4102-04 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 959-09 (Ward 01) (R 223-10)
Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., 3750 (1st. fl. & bsmt.)- transfer of ownership application
(Ward 02) (F 279-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

272

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

256
241
266
265
241
241
266

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

March 3, 2010

The City Record

35

Memphis Avenue, 6101 - objection to transfer of ownership - (Ward 13) (R 220-10). . . . .
Ohio Ave., 15015 - withdraw objection to issuance - repeal Res. 1688-09 - (Ward 01)
(R 277-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Rd., 5120 - transfer of location application (Ward 13) (F 284-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Riverside Dr., 5300 - new application (Ward 18) (F 285-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 12515-19 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1166-09 (Ward 10)
(R 222-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 11333 - new application (Ward 09) (F 282-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 6203- objection to transfer of liquor license - (Ward 07) (R 217-10) . . . . .
West 65th St., 2044 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 963-09 - (Ward 15)
(R 225-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1296 - objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 274-10) . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255

Loans
Appropriate UDAG funds for NEHST to use as a loan guarantee (O 267-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Community Development Grant (Drop Off)Program, 2010 - Grants (O 264-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Lease Seneca Golf Course and adjacent property to Cleveland Metroparks (O 266-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

Permits
Euclid Ave. - encroachment into right-of-way - Euclid Corridor Project area (underground
vaults) (O 262-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
Euclid Ave. - encroachment into right-of-way - installing, using, and maintaining dual
12-inch chilled water lines - CSU (Ward 08) (O 263-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
Run for Peace - March 21st - Our Lady of Peace Elementary School - Service Dept. (Ward
06) (O 278-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Port Control Department
Lease Agreement with U.S. Coast Guard - Ninth Street Lots Nos. 9 & 10 (used for government
purposes, including Parking) (O 1785-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Lease By Way of Concession - Ninth Street Lots Nos. 9 & 10 - special event parking
(O 1784-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

Professional Services
Clerk of Council - agreement - Louise Laffitte (O 212-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Service Dept. - public improvement contract - Harvard Yards fuel tanks (O 134-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

Public Improvements
Service Dept. - contract - professional services - Harvard Yards fuel tanks (O 134-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

Public Utilities Department
2010 Water Bonds - water meters (O 261-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

Recognition Resolutions
Cleveland Dietetic Association / “National Nutrition Month 2010” (R 301-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Arson offenders required to register personal with Attorney General -Senate Bill 30
- (R 216-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Resolution of Support
Cuyahoga Heights Clean Ohio Grant application - project located at 6551 Grant Ave. (R 268-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

273

The City Record

36

March 3, 2010

Senate Bills
Arson offenders required to register personal with Attorney General - Senate Bill
30 (R 216-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Seneca Golf Course
Lease Seneca Golf Course and adjacent property to Cleveland Metroparks (O 266-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248

Service Department
Community Development Grant (Drop Off)Program, 2010 - Grants - Ohio Department of Natural
Resources (O 264-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247

Consent agreement Willow Avenue Lift Bridge (O 265-10)
Euclid Ave. - encroachment into right-of-way - Euclid Corridor Project area (underground
vaults) (O 262-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
Euclid Ave. - encroachment into right-of-way - installing, using, and maintaining dual
12-inch chilled water lines - CSU (Ward 08) (O 263-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
Public improvement contract - professional services - Harvard Yards fuel tanks (O 134-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

Run for Peace - permit - March 21st - Our Lady of Peace Elementary School (Ward 06)
(O 278-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Shaker Square Area Development Corporation - encroachment into right-of-way - Shaker Blvd.
& Fairhill Rd. - installing & maintaining 4 neighborhood entry signs (O 9-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

Shaker Square Development Corporation
Encroachment into right-of-way - Shaker Blvd. & Fairhill Rd. - installing & maintaining
4 neighborhood entry signs (O 9-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

State of Ohio
Appropriate UDAG funds for NEHST to use as a loan guarantee (O 267-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Union - Miles Development Corporation
East 119th St. & Miles Ave. - PPN 138-13-008 / 009 / 080 - Land Reutilization Program (Ward
02) (O 271-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 252
Lee Rd., 4345 - PPN 143-05-013 - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 01) (O 270-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 252

Ward 01
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Lee Rd., 4102-04 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 959-09 - liquor
permit (R 223-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Lee Rd., 4345 - PPN 143-05-013 - Land Reutilization Program - Union Miles Development Corp.
(O 270-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 252
Ohio Ave., 15015 - withdraw objection to issuance - repeal Res. 1688-09 - liquor permit
(R 277-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
Tufts, Addie Bee - congratulations (R 298-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Young, Dr. Edward - condolence (R 288-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

Ward 02
East 119th St. & Miles Ave. - PPN 138-13-008 / 009 / 080 - Land Reutilization Program Union Miles Development Corp. (O 271-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 252
East 93rd St., 3831 - objection to issuance - liquor permit (R 224-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266

Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., 3750 (1st. fl. & bsmt.)- transfer of ownership application
- liquor permit (F 279-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

Ward 03
Approve petitions for Special Improvement District - (Downtown Cleveland) (R 272-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Bongorno, Richard P. - congratulations (R 295-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

Cleveland Dietetic Association / “National Nutrition Month 2010” - recognition (R 301-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Consent agreement Willow Avenue Lift Bridge (O 265-10)
DeGrandis, Fred M - congratulations (R 293-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Ertle II, Karl J. - congratulations (R 294-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Euclid Ave., 6687 (1st. fl. & patio)- new application - liquor permit (F 281-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

274

March 3, 2010

The City Record

37

Euclid Ave., 6687 (1st. fl. & patio)- transfer of location application - liquor permit
(F 280-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
West 6th St., 1296 - objection to transfer of ownership - liquor permit (R 274-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255

Ward 04
East 116th St., 3344 - withdraw objection to transfer of stock - repeal Res. 24-2010 liquor permit (R 219-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266

Ward 05
Community College Blvd., 3609 - objection to issuance - liquor permit (R 226-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Gulley, Pastor Stephen M. - congratulations (R 300-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Jackson, Willie James - condolence (R 286-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Jenkins, Annette Marie - condolence (R 287-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
St. John’s West Family Homes, L.P. - various sites - Land Reutilization Program (O 269-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249

Ward 06
Brittenum, Donald F. M.D. - condolence (R 291-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Pryatel, Judge August - condolence (R 292-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Run for Peace - permit - March 21st - Our Lady of Peace Elementary School - Service Dept.
(O 278-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Woodard, Claudette - condolence (R 290-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

Ward 07
Superior Ave., 6203- objection to transfer of liquor license - (R 217-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

Ward 08
Euclid Ave. - encroachment into right-of-way - installing, using, and maintaining dual
12-inch chilled water lines - CSU (O 263-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
Euclid Ave., 1900 - objection to issuance - liquor permit (R 218-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Rose, Sandra Henighan - congratulations (R 299-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

Williams, Nathaniel Emmanuel - condolence (R 289-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

Ward 09
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Superior Ave., 11333 - new application - liquor permit (F 282-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Woodard, Claudette - condolence (R 290-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

Young, Dr. Edward - condolence (R 288-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

Ward 10
East 140th St., 625 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1101-09 - liquor permit
(R 276-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
East 140th St., 831 - transfer of ownership application - liquor permit (F 283-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
St. Clair Ave., 12515-19 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1166-09 - liquor
permit (R 222-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266

Ward 11
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

275

The City Record

38

March 3, 2010

Ward 12
Bongorno, Richard P. - congratulations (R 295-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga Heights Clean Ohio Grant application - project located at 6551 Grant Ave. (R 268-10)
DeGrandis, Fred M - congratulations (R 293-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dobrovic, George - congratulations (R 296-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ertle II, Karl J. - congratulations (R 294-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

..
.
..
..
..

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

242
253
242
242
242

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Ward 13
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Memphis Avenue, 6101 - objection to transfer of ownership - (R 220-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Pearl Rd., 5120 - transfer of location application - liquor permit (F 284-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

Ward 14
Clark Ave., 3226 - objection to issuance - liquor permit (R 275-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Ward 15
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Holody, Jonathan - congratulations (R 297-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
West 65th St., 2044 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 963-09 - liquor permit
(R 225-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

Ward 16
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Ward 17
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama Administration to reconsider
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Ward 18
Bongorno, Richard P. - congratulations (R 295-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .
DeGrandis, Fred M - congratulations (R 293-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ertle II, Karl J. - congratulations (R 294-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Foreclosure prevention assistance funding - TARP - urge Obama
excluding Ohio (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Riverside Dr., 5300 - new application - liquor permit (F 285-10) . .
Woodard, Claudette - condolence (R 290-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

...........................
...........................
...........................
Administration to reconsider
...........................
...........................
...........................

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241

Wrd 19
Bongorno, Richard P. - congratulations (R 295-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
DeGrandis, Fred M - congratulations (R 293-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Ertle II, Karl J. - congratulations (R 294-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242

276

