The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

August the Twenty-Fifth, Two Thousand and Ten

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
3
The Calendar
49
Board of Control
49
Civil Service
53
Board of Zoning Appeals
57
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
58
Public Notice
61
Public Hearings
61
City of Cleveland Bids
61
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
62
Committee Meetings
114
Index
114

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
Name Residence
1 Terrell H. Pruitt 3877 East 189th Street 44122
2 Zachary Reed 3734 East 149th Street 44120
3 Joe Cimperman P.O. Box 91688 44101
4 Kenneth L. Johnson 2948 Hampton Road 44120
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland 2369 East 36th Street 44105
6 Mamie J. Mitchell 12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712 44120
7 TJ Dow 7715 Decker Avenue 44103
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson 9024 Parkgate Avenue 44108
9 Kevin Conwell 10647 Ashbury Avenue 44106
10 Eugene R. Miller 13615 Kelso Avenue 44110
11 Michael D. Polensek 17855 Brian Avenue 44119
12 Anthony Brancatelli 6924 Ottawa Road 44105
13 Kevin J. Kelley 5904 Parkridge Avenue 44144
14 Brian J. Cummins 3104 Mapledale Avenue 44109
15 Matthew Zone 1228 West 69th Street 44102
16 Jay Westbrook 1278 West 103rd Street 44102
17 Dona Brady 1272 West Boulevard 44102
18 Martin J. Sweeney 3632 West 133rd Street 44111
19 Martin J. Keane 15907 Colletta Lane 44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Pam Benjamin, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – _________, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole D.West, Interim Director, Room
121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – John D. Mahone, Interim Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman _______, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair; Laura
M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey, Allan
Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine 15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy 12B
Judge Emanuella Groves 13A
Judge Michelle D. Earley 12A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan 12C
Judge Angela R. Stokes 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2010

Vol. 97

No. 5046

CITY COUNCIL
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 18, 2010
1,The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Committee:
Cimperman,
Services
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Wednesday, August 18, 2010
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson; Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer; Valarie J. McCall, Chief
of Government Affairs; Chris Warren, Chief of Regional Development;
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of
Public Affairs; Andrea V. Taylor,
Press Secretary; and Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Withers, Smith, Wasik,
Flask, Cox, Rush, Griffin, Brown,
Ambroz, Interim Directors Nycole D.
West and John D. Mahone.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76
prayer was offered by Rev. Cassandra Bledsoe of Greater Abyssinia
Baptist Church, 1161 East 105th
Street, located in Ward 8. Pledge of
Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Brancatelli.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1125-10.
Re #7730207 — D5, D6 Transfer of
Ownership Application — Sammys
at One Cleveland Center, Inc., d.b.a.
Sammys at One Cleveland Center,
1375 East Ninth Street and Mezzanine. (Ward 3). Received.

1297

File No. 1126-10.
Re: #6549231 — D2, D2X, D3, D3A,
D6 Stock Transfer Application —
1701 East 12th LLC, d.b.a. Sorchers,
1701 East 12th Street Suite, R135 1st
Floor (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1127-10.
Re: #5336782 — D1, D2, D3, D3A
Stock Transfer Application — Luciano
Inc.,
d.b.a.
Sainatos
Restaurant,
Restaurant, 1st Fl., 1852 Columbus
Road. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1128-10.
Re: #3693706 — D5, D6 Transfer
of Ownership Application — Hayes
Development
Group,
LLC,
d.b.a.
Mardi Gras, 1417 1423 East 21st
Street. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1129-10.
Re: #3452641 — Liquor Agency
—
Gurdev,
Inc.,
d.b.a.
Contract
Deeps State Liquor and Market,
7401-05 Central Avenue and bsmt.
(Ward 5). Received.
File No. 1130-10.
Re: #3452641 — D1, D2 Transfer
of Ownership Application — Gurdev,
Inc., d.b.a. Deeps State Liquor and
Market, 7401-05 Central Avenue and
bsmt. (Ward 5). Received.
File No. 1131-10.
Re: #9116835 — C2, C2X Transfer
of Ownership Application — 2132
East 79th Street, LLC, d.b.a. White
Front Food Market, 7819-21 Cedar
Avenue. (Ward 6). Received.
File No. 1132-10.
Re: #955501 — D5H New Application — Western Reserve Historical
Society,
10825
East
Boulevard.
(Ward 8). Received.
File No. 1133-10.
Re: #4979600 — D5 Stock Transfer
Application — Lakeshore Coctails,
LLC, 16826 Lake Shore Boulevard.
(Ward 11). Received.
File No. 1134-10.
Re: #1525519 — C1, C2 Transfer of
Ownership
Application
—
Clark
Petroleum, LLC, 5110 Clark Avenue.
(Ward 15). Received.
File No. 1135-10.
Re: #1548585 — D5H New Application — Cleveland Public Theatre,
Inc., 6403-6415 Detroit Avenue. (Ward
15). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:

The City Record

4
Res. No. 1136-10—Jonathon “Jesse”
Lee Herod.
Res. No. 1137-10 — Clarence D.
Graves.
Res. No. 1138-10 — Helen Barbara
(Thompson) Dicks.
Res. No. 1139-10—M.C. Bostic.
Res. No. 1140-10—Emil Cielec.
Res. No. 1141-10—Pete Catavolos.
Res. No. 1142-10—Annette Roberts
(nee Cobbs).
Res. No. 1143-10—Katherine Marie
Butler.
Res. No. 1144-10 — Addie E. Gonsalves.
Res. No. 1145-10 — Clifton Wesley
Beasley.
Res. No. 1146-10 — Patricia Rae
Marshall Mosley.
Res. No. 1147-10 — Shana Denise
Gardner.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1048-10 — 2010 Hispanic
Heritage Month.
Res. No. 1148-10 — Portia Victoria
Bush-Rauh.
Res. No. 1149-10—Joseph T. Sadie.
Res. No. 1150-10 — Sts. Peter and
Paul Ukrainian Catholic Church —
100th Anniversary.
Res. No. 1151-10 — Pastors Edwin
T. & Renae A. Moore.
Res. No. 1152-10—Michael G. Contardi, O.de M.
Res. No. 1153-10—Luis Martinez.
Res. No. 1154-10—Father Joesph C.
Pednekar.
Res. No. 1155-10—Father John J.
Cregan.
Res. No. 1156-10 — Anchor Manufacturing Group, Inc.
Res. No. 1157-10 — Sybil Monica
Jones.
Res. No. 1158-10—Chae Simpson.
Res. No. 1159-10—Tyreese Brown.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1160-10 — Nehemiah Mission of Cleveland.
Res. No. 1161-10—Robert Klein.
Res. No. 1162-10 — Helen Masson
Beebe.
Res. No. 1163-10—Senator George
V. Voinovich.
Res. No. 1164-10—Asaad’s Bakery.
Res. No. 1165-10 — Richard A.
Ganim.
Res. No. 1166-10 — Mary Rose
Oakar.
Res. No. 1167-10 — Dr. Wael
Khoury.
Res. No. 1168-10—Americans with
Disabilities Act (20th Anniversary).
Res. No. 1169-10—Thandiwe Banda.
Res. No. 1170-10 — Dr. Kenneth
David Kaunda.
Res. No. 1171-10—Mary J. Blige.
Res. No. 1172-10 — The Cleveland
Congress of Bridge Clubs.
Res. No. 1173-10—Father William
Behringer.
Res. No. 1174-10—Marie Kittredge.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1175-10 — Olivia Maxine
Williams.

Res. No. 1176-10—Pastor Robert M.
Dix, Jr.
Res. No. 1177-10 — Amanda Dempsey.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1024-10.
By Council Members Reed, Miller,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 104th Street.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1352-08, adopted November 9, 2009
this Council declared its intent to
vacate a portion of East 104th
Street; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on April 13, 2010 the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of East 104th Street (50 ft.
wide) extending Southerly from the
Southerly line of Park Heights Road
S.E. (40 ft. wide) to its Southerly
terminus.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of 20 feet in width along the
center line as described above for
Cleveland Safety Departments, Fire,
Police and EMS for ingress/egress
with unobstructed signage. That
there is reserved to Dominion East
Ohio Gas an easement of full width.
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
Dominion East Ohio Gas, and the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

1298

August 25, 2010
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1025-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Cleveland Housing Network for
professional services necessary to
provide administration and other
related services for the Division of
Water’s discount affordability program, for a period of one year, with
one option to renew, exercisable by
the Director of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Cleveland Housing Network for
professional services necessary to
provide administration and other
related services for the Division of
Water’s discount affordability program on the basis of its proposal emailed on July 30, 2010, in the total
sum of $139,472, for the Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
one year, with one option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Public Utilities.
The contract or contracts shall be paid from Fund No.
52 SF 001, Request No. RQS 2002 RL
2010-150.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1026-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary to design, layout, produce,
and distribute 2010 and 2011 annual
reports and other customer public
information and promotional materials, for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to design, layout,
produce, and distribute 2010 and
2011 annual reports and other customer public information and pro-

August 25, 2010
motional materials, including but
not limited to writing, photography
artwork
offset
lithographic
and
reproduction, for the various divisions of the Department of Public
Utilities.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
or
contracts
authorized
contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001,
54 SF 001, and 58 SF 001, Request
No. RQS 2002 RL 2010-151.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1027-10.
By Council Members Mitchell, KelBrancatelli,
Cleveland
and
ley,
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to transfer Permanent Parcel No.
129-05-048 located on Mt. Overlook
Avenue to the control, possession,
and use of the Department of Community Development for redevelopment purposes.
Whereas, the Department of Public Utilities desires to transfer certain property under its control to the
Department of Community Development; and
Whereas, Section 183.14 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, requires that such transfer be preceded by an ordinance of
Council approving the transfer; and
Whereas, the property to be transferred will become a component of
the City of Cleveland’s residential
land reutilization program, as established
by
Ordinance
No.
717-05,
passed July 13, 2005, and, as such,
will be regulated by Chapter 5722 of
the Revised Code and Section 183.021
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, regarding acquisition and disposition of the property;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.14 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
transfer Permanent Parcel No. 12905-048
located
on
Mt.
Overlook
Avenue to the control, possession,
and use of the Department of Community Development:
Permanent Parcel Number 129-05-048
Situated in the city of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of

The City Record
Original 100 Acre Lot #421 and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin at the
intersection of the West line of said
Original Lot #421 with the north
line of Mt. Overlook Avenue, 40 feet
wide;
Thence South 84° 12' 10" East,
along said North line of Mt. Overlook Avenue, 174.68 feet to a drill
hole at the true place of beginning
of the parcel herein described:
Course No. 1:
Thence North, 0° 01' 40" West,
100.51 feet to an iron pin in the
South line of land conveyed to St.
Ann’s Maternity Hospital by deed
dated June 12, 1947;
Course No. 2:
Thence South 84° 12' 10" East,
along said South line 40.56 feet to
an iron pin in the West line of Leisy
Estate Subdivision as shown by plat
recorded in volume 70, Page 14 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Course No. 3:
Thence South 0° 17' 30" West,
along said West line, 100.46 feet to
a point in said North line of Mt.
Overlook Avenue;
Course No. 4:
Thence North 84° 12' 10" West,
40.00 feet along said North line of
Mt. Overlook Avenue to the place of
beginning and being further known
as Sublot No. 5, as shown by survey
and subdivision plat by the C.W.
Courtney
Engineering
Company
dated November 1, 1948, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 2. That on consummation
of the transfer referenced above, the
directors participating in the transaction shall initial and date a copy
of this ordinance and deliver the
copy to the custody of the Division
of Property Management of the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Community Development,
City Planning Commission, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Utilities,
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1028-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more agreements with Cuyahoga Community
College to participate in the development of TRI-C’s Smart Grid Technology training program.
Whereas, “Smart Grid Technology”
integrates
enhanced
communications and computer technology into
the
nation’s
electric
distribution
grid; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga Community
College (“TRI-C”) has been awarded
a grant from the U.S. Department of
Energy for a three-year project to
develop a curriculum to upgrade
skills needed to implement Smart
Grid Technology; and
Whereas, TRI-C seeks to develop
training for workers in the electric
utility industry who will construct,
operate and maintain the Smart
Grid; and

1299

5
Whereas, TRI-C has requested
Cleveland Public Power to assist in
this effort by identifying key City
personnel to be trained, reviewing
TRI-C’s curriculum and making recommendations to it, assisting TRI-C
in conducting training classes, and
providing data to TRI-C for their
grant reporting purposes, and for
the City’s participation, TRI-C will
provide compensation to the City in
an amount up to $125,000 for the
entire three-year term; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more agreements
with Cuyahoga Community College
(“TRI-C”) to compensate the City of
Cleveland for its participation in
Smart
Grid
Technology
training
over a period of three years, in an
amount not to exceed $125,000.
Section 2. That the compensation
received under this ordinance shall
be deposited into the fund or funds
deemed appropriate by the Director
of Finance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1030-10.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Conwell, Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Ohio Technical
College to encroach into the public
right-of-way of 1374 East 51st Street
by installing, using, and maintaining an entrance canopy and two support posts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Ohio Technical College,
1374 East 51st Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44103 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the public right-of-way
of 1374 East 51st Street by installing, using, and maintaining an
entrance canopy and two support
posts at the following location:
Located at the entrance of 1374
East 51st Street, canopy is 8.33 feet
wide in front, 3.5 feet in height and
encroaching into the right of way
12.83 feet. Canopy has a minimum
clearance height above sidewalk of
8.0 feet and is supported by building and two 2-inch square posts.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structures permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the

6
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachments.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law
shall
prepare
the
permit
authorized by this ordinance and
shall incorporate such additional
provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The permit
shall be issued only when, in the
opinion of the Director of Law, Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachments permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1031-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to the Historic Warehouse District Development Corporation to encroach into the public
right-of-way of the west side of
West 6th Street between Frankfort
Avenue and St. Clair Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining
steel railings around 7 existing
planting beds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to the Historic Warehouse
District Development Corporation,
614 West Superior Avenue, Suite 680,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113 (“Permittee”),
to encroach into the public right-ofway of the west side of West 6th
Street between Frankfort Avenue
and St. Clair Avenue by installing,
using, and maintaining steel railings around 7 existing planting beds
at the following location: 10 feet by
5 feet planting beds located along
the west sidewalk of West 6th
Street between Frankfort Ave and
St. Clair Avenue, maintaining 6 feet
of unobstructed sidewalk at all
places alongside the encroachment
area.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structures permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachments.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law
shall
prepare
the
permit
authorized by this ordinance and

The City Record
shall incorporate such additional
provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The permit
shall be issued only when, in the
opinion of the Director of Law, Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachments permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment locations.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1033-10.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Commission on Minority
Health for the 2011 Minority Health
Program; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or more contracts with agencies, entities, or
individuals to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $75,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Ohio Commission on Minority Health to conduct the 2011 Minority Health Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under the
grant; and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes described in
the summary for the grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1033-10-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

1300

August 25, 2010
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1034-10.
By Council Members Keane, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Servisair USA, Inc. for the lease of
office space at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport for office and
storage space to support ground
handling operation services, for the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years, with one option
to renew for an additional one-year
period and a second option to renew
for approximately sixteen additional months, the first option is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease Agreement (“Lease”)
with Servisair USA, Inc. (“Lessee”)
for use and occupancy of approximately 316 square feet of office
space located on the apron level of
Concourse “A” at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (“Leased Premises”) for office and storage space to
support ground handling operation
services. The term of the Lease
shall be for a two year period, commencing August 1, 2010, with a one
year-option to renew, and a second
option to renew for approximately
sixteen additional months, ending
on December 3, 2014. The first oneyear option to renew may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional
legislative authority is granted and
the one-year option to renew is exercised, then the second sixteen-month
option to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Port
Control, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council. For use of the Leased
Premises, Lessee shall pay the City
an initial rate of Twenty Six Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty-Five Dollars
and
Seventy
Two
Cents
($26,755.72) which is equal to $84.67
per square foot. Such rent shall be
paid in monthly installments due on
the first day of each month during
the remainder of 2010. Terminal
rental rates are established annually based on a formula outlined in
the airline Master Lease and Agreement. The rental rate for the subject space will change annually and
will be calculated in accordance
with the terms outlined in the referenced agreement.
Section 2. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

August 25, 2010
Referred to Directors of Port ConCity
Planning
Commission,
trol,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1035-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, or otherwise improving Public Auditorium,
including site improvements and appurtenances; authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into one or more contracts for the making of the improvements; to employ one or more
architectural, landscape architectural or engineering firms and other
consultants to provide professional
services necessary to provide review
and evaluation services relating to
the improvement; and authorizing
the Director to enter into one or
more contracts for the making of
the improvement to Public Auditorium, for the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, or otherwise improving Public Auditorium,
including all site improvements and
appurtenances necessary and incidental, for the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract
one or more architects, landscape
architects and engineers, or one or
more firms of architects, landscape
architects and engineers, necessary
to provide review and evaluation
services and implement the public
improvements authorized in this
ordinance. The selection of the consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for the employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling the list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the

The City Record
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to apply and pay for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 5. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the cost of any
expenditure authorized by this ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds which are credited the proceeds of the sale of the Convention
Center.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Commission,
Finance,
Planning
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Properties
and
Recreation,
City
Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1036-10.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to lease certain
property north of Otter Avenue,
between East 81st Street and East
82nd Street to Rid-all Exterminating
& General Contracting Corporation,
Damien Forshe, President, or its
designee,
for
the
purpose
of
installing
an
urban
agriculture
training center and associated uses,
for a term of five years.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property north of Otter
Avenue, between East 81st Street
and East 82nd Street, which is not
needed for public use; and
Whereas, Rid-all Exterminating &
General
Contracting
Corporation,
Damien Forshe, President, or its
designee, has proposed to lease the
property from the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to lease to Rid-all Exterminating & General Contracting Corporation, Damien Forshe, President,
or its designee (“Lessee”), certain
property which is not needed for
public use more fully depicted in the
map placed in File No. 1036-10-A.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed five years.

1301

7
Section 3. That the property authorized by this ordinance shall be
leased at fair market value as determined by the Board of Control,
exclusive of utilities.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize
the
Lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
the Director of Law, and other
appropriate City officials are authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
and
Properties,
City
Recreation
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1046-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 4798 East 178th Street
to Theoderus Bennett.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Theoderus Bennett.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 143-20-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Warrensville Township Lot
No. 93, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
proposed East 178th Street, said
Westerly line being parallel to and
1192.50 feet Easterly (measured at
right angles) from the Westerly line
of
the
second
parcel
of
land
described in the Deed from John B.
Corlett and others, to William J.
Lang dated February 1, 1916, and
recorded in Volume 1745, Page 592

8
of Cuyahoga County Records at a
point 400.89 feet Northerly (measured along said Westerly line and
the Southerly prolongation thereof)
from the Southerly line of third parcel of land so conveyed to William
J. Lang; thence Northerly along said
Westerly line of proposed East 178th
Street, 42 feet; thence Westerly on a
line at right angles with said Westerly line of proposed East 178th
Street 150 feet; thence Southerly on
a line parallel to said Westerly line
of proposed East 178th Street, 42
feet; thence Easterly 150 feet to
place of beginning, and being further known as Sublot No. 714 in
William J. Lang’s proposed Lee
Heights Allotment, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1055-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Building and
Housing to employ one or more professional consultants to perform
deconstruction services of structures
in the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to employ by contract or contracts
one or more consultants or one or
more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regu-

The City Record
larly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to perform deconstruction
services
of
structures,
including condemned structures, in
the City of Cleveland.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Building
and Housing from a list of qualified
consultants available for employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Building and Housing
for the purpose of compiling a list.
The compensation to be paid for the
services shall be fixed by the Board
The contract or conof Control.
tracts authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Building and Housing, and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
not exceed $185,000 and shall be
paid from Fund No. 20 SF 670,
Request No. RQS 8502 RL 2010-152.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1056-10.
Council
Members
Pruitt,
By
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 188.01, 188.02 and 188.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted and
amended by Ordinance No. 2031-A-02,
passed June 10, 2003 and Ordinance
No. 67-08, passed February 4, 2008,
relating to the Fannie M. Lewis
Cleveland
Resident
Employment
Law.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 188.01 and 188.02, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 2031-A-02,
passed June 10, 2003 and
Section 188.05, as amended by
Ordinance No. 67-08, passed February 4, 2008, are amended to read as
follows:
Section 188.01 Definitions
For purposes of this chapter, the
following words, phrases and terms
are defined as follows:
(a) “City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
(b) “Construction Contract” means
any agreement whereby the City
either grants a privilege or is committed to expend or does expend its
funds or other resources, or federal
grant opportunities, including without limitation, Community Development Block Grants, Urban Development Action Grants and Economic
Development Administration Grants,
in an amount of $100,000 or more, for
the erection, rehabilitation, improvement, alteration, conversion, extension, demolition or repair of improve-

1302

August 25, 2010
ments to real property, including
facilities providing utility service
and includes the supervision, inspection, and other on-site functions incidental to construction, but does not
include professional services. Construction Contract includes any contract that is entered into by a person or entity that receives a grant,
loan, privilege, credit, or resources
from the City, from its funds or from
federal grant opportunities for the
poor, minorities and/or unemployed
in an amount of $100,000 or more, for
the purpose of erecting, improving,
rehabilitating, altering, converting,
extending, demolishing, or repairing
real property or improvements to
real property.
(c) “Construction Worker Hours”
means the total hours worked on a
Construction Contract by Skilled
and Unskilled Construction Trade
Workers, whether those workers are
employed by the Contractor or any
Subcontractor. In determining the
total Construction Worker Hours to
be furnished at the construction site,
there shall be included the number
of hours devoted to all tasks customarily performed on a construction site, whether or not such tasks
are, in fact, performed on the construction site. Construction Worker
Hours excludes the number of hours
of work performed by non-Ohio residents.
(d) “Contractor” means any person
or company receiving a Construction
Contract from the City of Cleveland,
any subdivision of the City, or any
individual legally authorized to bind
the City pursuant to said contract.
(e) “Director” means the Director
of the Office of Equal .
(f) “Low-Income Person” means a
Resident who, when first employed
by a contractor, is a member of a
family having a total income equal
to or less than the “Section 8” Very
Low-Income limit established by the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. Very
Low-Income families are defined as
families whose incomes do not
exceed 50% of the median family
income for the area in which they
reside. Income limits are adjusted
for family size. A Resident who is
not a member of a family shall be
considered as a one-person family
for this purpose. A Resident shall
retain “Low-Income Person” status
for a continuous five (5) year period starting upon the OEO’s written
acknowledgement that the Resident’s
family
income
does
not
exceed the above-stated limit, provided:
(1) the Resident remains employed by the same employer that
hired the Resident as a Low-Income
Person; and
(2) the Resident remains a Resident during the five-year period.
(g) “Resident” or “Resident of the
City” shall mean persons domiciled
within the boundaries of City of
Cleveland. The domicile is an individual’s one and only true, fixed and
permanent
home
and
principal
establishment.
(h) “Skilled and Unskilled Construction Trade Worker” means all
work site foremen, journeyworkers,
including
technical
engineers,
apprentices,
construction
trainees
and elevator construction helpers
and apprentices that are in a bona
fide apprenticeship training program that is certified by the U.S.
Department of Labor, Bureau of
Apprenticeship and Training. Also
included are other workers appropriate for construction activities.
Salaried superintendents are excluded from this special provision.
(i) “Subcontractor(s)” means any
person or company that assumes by

August 25, 2010
secondary contract some or all of
the obligations of the original Contractor.
Section 188.02 Employment of City
Residents
(a) Where not otherwise prohibited by federal, state, or local law or
the terms of federal or state grants,
every Construction Contract shall:
(1) require that one or more Residents perform 20% of the total Construction Worker Hours (“Resident
Construction Worker Hours”) performed under the Construction Contract;
(2) state the penalties set forth in
Section 188.05 for failure to meet the
requirement of division (a)(1) of
this section; and
(3) require the Contractor and its
Subcontractors to use significant
effort to ensure that no less than
four percent (4%) of the Resident
Construction Worker Hours required
by this division are performed by
Low-Income Persons.
Upon submission of documentary
proof of the hours satisfactory to the
Director, a Contractor may include
in its Resident Construction Worker
Hours the hours worked for the Contractor or its Subcontractors by Residents who are Skilled and Unskilled
Construction Trade Workers on projects that are not under a Construction Contract, between the dates that
work under the Construction Contract begins and ends. A Contractor
may also include in its Resident Construction Worker Hours the hours
worked by Residents who are graduates of established, bona fide preapprenticeship programs approved
by the Fannie M. Lewis Advisory
Committee, including, but not limited to, the Bricklayers & Allied
Crafts Pre-apprenticeship program,
Cement Masons Pre-apprenticeship
program,
or
Union
Construction
Industry Partnership-Apprenticeship
Skill Achievement Program (“UCIPASAP”).
(b) The percentage levels set
forth in division (a) of Section
188.02 are intended as minimum
requirements for use of Residents
under Construction Contracts and
shall not be construed as limiting or
deferring the full use of Residents
beyond this numerical level.
(c) Prior to the commencement of
work, each Contractor and Subcontractor shall, if requested by the
Director, complete and submit to the
Director a work-force table. The
table shall identify the estimated
work-force
requirements
for
the
duration of the job, broken down by
trade and month. The Contractor or
Subcontractor shall revise the table
as required, but not less than once
a month.
Section 188.05 Violation and Penalty
(a) When work under a Construction Contract is completed, and
in the event that the Director determines that the Contractor has failed
to fulfill the requirements contained
in Section 188.02 concerning Construction Worker Hours performed
by Residents of the City or has
failed to submit reports as required
in Sections 188.02 and 188.04, the
City is deemed to have been damaged. Good faith efforts on the part
of the Contractor or Subcontractor to
provide employment to Residents of
the City shall not suffice to replace
the actual, verified achievement of
the requirements contained in Section 188.02.
(b) If a Contractor breaches a
Construction Contract by failing to

The City Record
meet
the
Resident
Construction
Worker Hours requirement of Section 188.02, it shall pay the City oneeighth (1/8) of one percent (1%) of
the final total amount of the Construction Contract for each percentage by which it fails to meet the
requirement or any reduced requirement determined appropriate by the
Director according to Section 188.03.
If a Contractor does not achieve the
Low-Income Person objective, the
Director in her or his sole discretion
shall determine whether a penalty is
appropriate and, if so, the penalty
amount the Contractor shall pay the
City.
(c) The Director, in addition to
any other remedies available for the
breaches by a Contractor identified
in division (b) of this section or for
other defaults under a Construction
Contract, may:
(1) Recommend that the City
withhold all or part of any payments due the Contractor until such
time as the Contractor cures its
defaults, pays or credits all penalties or other payments due under
the Construction Contract, the Code,
or the Standards and Procedures,
and is in full compliance with all
applicable provisions of the Code,
the Construction Contract, and the
Standards and Procedures relating
to Resident or Low-Income Person
employment or reporting;
(2) Recommend, based upon a
breach of or default under the Contract relating to Resident or LowIncome Person employment, that the
City rescind, cancel, or otherwise
terminate the Construction Contract
and declare a forfeiture of any performance bond;
(3) Recommend that the Director
of Law take such legal action,
whether civil or criminal, as he
deems appropriate;
(4) Recommend disqualification
under Section 181.27 or Section 185.08
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 of a Contractor from
eligibility to bid to or contract with
the City for a period not to exceed
two (2) years; or
(5) Recommend that the City
make a claim for payment of damages, including any liquidated damages specified in the Contract.
(d) A decision of the Director
under this section is final and may
be appealed to the Board of Zoning
Appeals, whose decision, in turn,
may be reviewed by the Common
Pleas Court of Cuyahoga County
under Chapter 2506 of the Revised
Code, or as otherwise provided by
law.
(e) Failure to submit, or knowing
falsification of, the reports required
in Sections 188.02 and 188.04 shall
result in a breach of the Construction Contract subject to assessment
of the maximum penalty provided in
division (b), and the penalty shall
be calculated as if no Residents of
the City were employed on the construction project in furtherance of
the Construction Contract.
(f) No Contractor shall knowingly falsify any required reports,
statements or payroll certifications.
Any Contractor who knowingly falsifies reports, statements or the certification of payroll data is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree
and subject to a fine of not more
than five thousand dollars ($5,000).
If a Contractor is convicted under
this division, that Contractor shall
be barred from contracting with the
City on any construction project subject to this chapter for a period of
five (5) years.
(g) Pending determination by the
Director whether a Contractor must
pay a penalty under this chapter,

1303

9
the Director may recommend that
the City withhold from amounts
retained by the City under Section
185.41 and payable to the Contractor,
the amount of any penalty payable
by the Contractor under this chapter.
(h) The imposition of any penalty or fine under this section shall
not preclude the City from exercising any other rights or remedies to
which it is entitled.
(i) All funds collected by the City
of Cleveland under division (b) or
(c) of this section shall be deposited into a special account which
shall be created for the sole purpose
of receiving said funds. The funds
deposited into this account shall be
used for the operation of the Office
of Equal Opportunity provided such
funds have been appropriated for
that purpose, provided there is any
necessary legislative authority and
provided the funds are used in compliance with all laws or restrictions
regarding their use.
(j) No person shall knowingly
supply false information to establish
that the person is a Resident for
purposes of this Chapter. Any person who knowingly supplies false
information to establish that he or
she is a Resident is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Upon
conviction, such person shall be
barred from employment in furtherance of a Construction Contract for
a period of five (5) years.
Section 2. That the following
existing sections of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 188.01 and 188.02, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 2031-A-02,
passed June 10, 2003 and
Section 188.05, as amended by
Ordinance No. 67-08, passed February 4, 2008, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Office of
Equal Opportunity, Finance, Law;
Committees on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1073-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 10805 Nelson Avenue
to Ella M. Settles.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of

10
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Ella
M. Settles.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 136-04-021
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
223 in James M. and Colgate Hoyt’s
Allotment of a part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 458, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Nelson Avenue
and extending back between parallel lines 140 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

Ord. No. 1074-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and
located
at
16320-22
Telfair
Avenue to Barry K. Dowdell.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio

The City Record
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Barry
K. Dowdell.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 143-02-055
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and bounded and described as
follows, to wit: and known as being
Sublot No. 70 in H.J. Sheets’ Lee
Road Subdivision of part of Original
Warrensville Township Lot No. 91,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 87 of Maps, Page 35 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Southerly side of
Telfair Avenue, and extending back
equal
width
156.37
feet,
as
of
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

Ord. No. 1075-10.
By Council Member Kenneth L.
Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 2913 East 117th Street
to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement

1304

August 25, 2010
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc..
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 129-18-104
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
50 in the Rice Homestead Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 428, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 45 of Maps,
Page
12
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 35 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 117th
Street and extending back of equal
width 104 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

August 25, 2010

The City Record
FIRST READING

11

ORDINANCES REFERRED

Ord. No. 1076-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the Use District of land located near the southwest corner of Rowley Avenue and West
11th Street from Two Family Residential to Local Retail Business (Map Change No. 2336; Sheet No. 6).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 11th Street at its intersection with the centerline of Rowley Avenue;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 11th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of
the southerly line of Sublot No. 45 in the Meyer Re-Allotment Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 12, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Rowley Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Rowley Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 11th
Street and the principal place of beginning, and as outlined and shaded on the attached map is changed to a
Local Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change
No.2336, Sheet No. 6 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1305

12

The City Record

August 25, 2010

Ord. No. 1077-10.
By Council Members Dow and J. Johnson.
An ordinance establishing the Superior Avenue Design Review District (Map Change No. 2337, Sheet No. 4).
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has determined that the proposed Design Review District meets the
criteria for designation contained in Section 341.04 (a) of Chapter 341 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Superior Avenue Design Review District is hereby established and includes the areas shown
on the map attached.
Section 2. That the designation of the area described in Section 1 hereof as the Superior Avenue Design Review
District shall be identified as Map Change Number 2337, Sheet Number 4, shall be noted on the Building Zone
Maps of the City of Cleveland and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1306

August 25, 2010
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1032-10.
By Council Members Westbrook
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Stanhope Court N.W. (12 feet wide).
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Stanhope Court N.W. (12
feet wide), as described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion of the following described real
property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being a portion
of Stanhope Court N.W. (12 feet
wide) extending westerly from the
westerly line of West 93rd Street (50
feet wide) to the easterly portion of
Stanhope Court N.W. (12 feet wide)
vacated by ordinance number 202277 passed March 20, 1978.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Res. No. 1078-10.
By Council Members Polensek,
Brancatelli, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency resolution approving the City’s participation in and
formation of the City of ClevelandFirst Suburbs Development Council
Advanced Energy Special Improvement District; authorizing the execution and delivery of a Petition
and approving the Petition, Articles
of Incorporation, and Initial Plan of
the City of Cleveland-First Suburbs
Development
Council
Advanced
Energy Special Improvement District; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas, Chapter 1710 of the Ohio
Revised Code (the “Revised Code”)
authorizes the formation of special
improvement districts within the
boundaries of a municipality, or any
combination of contiguous municipal corporations, to allow property
owners to assess themselves to pay
costs of developing and implementing plans for public improvements
and public services that benefit the
special improvement district, including special energy improvement projects which are defined in Chapter
1710 of the Revised Code to mean

The City Record
“any property, device, structure or
equipment necessary for the acquisition, installation, equipping and
improvement of any real or personal property used for the purpose of
creating a solar photovoltaic project, a solar thermal energy project,
a geothermal energy project, a customer-generated energy project, or
an energy efficiency improvement,
whether such real or personal property is publicly or privately owned.”;
and
Whereas, the City of ClevelandFirst Suburbs Development Council
Advanced Energy Special Improvement District is the short name for
the special improvement district
being authorized hereby for the purpose of developing and implementing
plans
for
special
energy
improvement projects in the City
and a combination of contiguous
municipal corporations, a petition is
required to be signed by one hundred percent of the owners of the
area of all real property located
within the proposed special improvement district (the “Petition”), at
least one special energy improvement project shall be designated for
each parcel of real property within
the special improvement district,
and the special improvement district
may include any number of parcels
of real property as determined by
the legislative authority of each participating political subdivision in
which the proposed special improvement district is to be located; and
Whereas, Chapter 1710 of the
Revised Code provides that no special
improvement
district
may
include any property of federal or
state government or a county, township
or
municipal
corporation,
unless the county, township or
municipal corporation specifically
requests in writing that the property
be
included
in
the
special
improvement district, and further
provides that the territory in a special improvement district may contain non-contiguous parcels of real
property if all parcels of real property included in the District contain
at least one special energy improvement project and 100% of the owners of the parcels of real property
in the District sign a petition
requesting inclusion in the District.
District
boundaries
can
include
parcels of real property located in
multiple municipal corporations or
townships, so long as each of the
municipal corporations or townships
is contiguous to one another; and
Whereas, the District is to be governed by the board of trustees of a
nonprofit corporation (the “Corporation”) to be formed under Chapters
1702 and 1710 of the Revised Code,
and the articles of incorporation
establishing the Corporation to be
filed with the Ohio Secretary of
State in accordance with this resolution shall include the official
names of the District and Corporation when each participating political subdivision of the District has
been determined pursuant to and in
accordance with this resolution; and
Whereas, under Section 1710.02(F)
of the Revised Code, a proposed initial plan for special energy improvement projects benefitting the district (the “Plan”) has been submit-

1307

13
ted to the City as part of the Petition proposing the creation of the
District; and
Whereas, the Petition and Plan
and the Articles of Incorporation of
Corporation
(the
“Articles”)
the
have been filed with the Mayor and
the Clerk of Council of the City in
File No. 1078-10-A; and
Whereas, adoption of this resolution represents the first legislative
step in the process of creating the
District (hereinafter referred to as
the “Advanced Energy District”),
which will likely be the first special
improvement district created for the
purpose of developing and implementing plans for special energy
projects
under
the
improvement
amendments to Chapter 1710 of the
Revised Code and which may be the
first or one of the first multi-jurisdictional urban-first ring suburban
Property Assessed Clean Energy
(PACE) programs in the United
States; and
Whereas, the Mayors and the Economic Development Directors of the
City of Cleveland and member communities of the First Suburbs Consortium Development Council are
requesting this Council to approve
the creation of the Advanced Energy District and a pilot program to
be marketed to commercial and
industrial property owners within
the City of Cleveland and each of
the participating municipal corporations in the Advanced Energy District that will (i) provide commercial and industrial property owners
who desire to generate electricity on
their properties the ability to pursue
long term special assessment financing, (ii) use authority under Chapters 1710 and 4928 of the Revised
Code to permit these property owners to participate in various federal
and state grant and tax incentives
that will lower the property owner’s
electric utility bills; (iii) lower the
carbon footprint of the region; and
(iv)
create
economies
of
scale
through joining with other participating municipal corporations to
achieve results listed in items (i)
through (iii); and
Whereas, in order to create a common plan for the development of
special energy improvement projects
in the Advanced Energy District
and achieve certain economies of
scale needed to lower special energy improvement project financing
costs, the Mayors and Economic
Development Directors of the City of
Cleveland and the participating contiguous member communities of the
First Suburbs Consortium Development Council are requesting that
each contiguous municipal corporation wishing to participate in the
Advanced Energy District join the
Advanced Energy District as initial
members. To do this each City Council is being requested to approve the
development of a demonstration special energy improvement project
that will be located on land owned
by the participating municipal corporation and then approve the execution and delivery of a Petition
that requests in writing that the
municipally owned real property
where the special energy improvement project will be developed be
included in the Advanced Energy

14
District.
By each participating
municipal corporation becoming the
initial members of the District and
approving the same plan, special
energy improvement projects developed by commercial-industrial property owners in each City participating in the Advanced Energy District
will be able to join the Advanced
Energy District to develop their special energy improvement projects
according to one Advanced Energy
District plan approved by each participating
municipal
corporation.
The City Councils of each of the
participating member communities
of the First Suburbs Consortium
Development Council have adopted
or will be adopting resolutions similar to this resolution. The costs of
developing and financing special
energy improvement projects and
providing services to and operating
the Advanced Energy District are
anticipated to be assessed to the
commercial-industrial property owndeveloping
special
energy
ers
improvement projects in the District
and will not be financed with general obligation bonds of the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver
the Petition on behalf of the City in
substantially the form on file with
the Clerk of Council, together with
such revisions and additions as are
approved by the Director of Law as
being consistent with the objectives
and requirements of this resolution,
including the addition of the names
and related information of those
member communities of the FirstSuburbs
Consortium
Development
Council that have or will approve,
execute and deliver the Petition and
Plan of the Advanced Energy District as participating municipal corporation and all of such approvals
and authorizations shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution
and delivery of the Petition by said
officers.
Section 2 That the Petition as executed and delivered as provided for
in
Section
1
hereof
is
hereby
approved and further that the Articles
of
Incorporation
of
the
Advanced Energy District are hereby approved in substantially the
form now on file with the Clerk of
Council, together with such revisions and additions to the Articles
of Incorporation as are approved by
the Director of Law as being consistent with the objectives and
requirements
of
this
resolution,
including such revisions to the Articles of Incorporation to reflect the
participating municipal corporations
in the Advanced Energy District,
which approval by the Director of
Law shall be conclusively evidenced
by a certificate executed by the
Director of Law approving the Articles of Incorporation as being in
accordance with this resolution.
Section 3. That the Petition represents the request in writing of the

The City Record
City of Cleveland for inclusion into
the Advanced Energy District of certain real property owned by the
City, as defined below and more particularly described in the Petition on
file with the Clerk of Council.
Section 4. That, under Chapter
1710 of the Revised Code, the Petition and the Articles, there is hereby established a special improvement district to be known as the
Advanced Energy District, and the
City’s participation in the Advanced
Energy District is hereby authorized
with the approval of this Council
herein of the inclusion of the folCity-owned
property
for
lowing
powered
security
lighting
solar
installations:
Humphrey Park
6616 Grovewood Ave
Cleveland, OH 44110
Permanent Parcel Number 113-18011
as more particularly described in
the Petition on file with the Clerk
of Council.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development shall be the
City Council appointee to the board
of directors of the Advanced Energy District.
Section 6. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to file or
cause to be filed a copy of the Articles of Incorporation, together with
such revisions and additions to the
Articles of Incorporation as are
approved by the Director of Law as
being consistent with the objectives
and requirements of this resolution
and the Revised Code, the approval
of the Director of Law and a copy
of this resolution with the Ohio Secretary of State.
Section 7. That this Council finds
and determines that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
resolution were adopted in an open
meeting of the Council and that all
deliberations of the Council and of
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meeting open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 8. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1029-10.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Conwell, Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to University Circle
Inc. to encroach into the public

1308

August 25, 2010
rights-of- way of various streets in
the University Circle area by installing, using, and maintaining a
total of 25 wayfinding signs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to University Circle Inc.
(“Permittee”), 10831 Magnolia Drive,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106-1887, to encroach into the public rights-of-way
of various streets in the University
Circle area by installing, using, and
maintaining 25 wayfinding signs at
approximately the locations described in Council File No. 1029-10-A. The
location of an encroaching object
stated in the File shall not be
changed without the prior written
approval of the Director of Public
Service who shall then report each
changed location to Council in writing for incorporation in the File.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
written consent of the Director of
Public Service. That nothing in this
ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right,
privilege, or permission to use, or to
attach or affix any object to, poles;
Permittee shall obtain such permission from the respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching
objects permitted by this ordinance
shall conform to plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required permits, including but not limited to Building
Permits, before installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, a prospective
Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachments permitted.
Section 5. That the Permit shall
reserve reasonable right of entry to
the encroachment location to the
City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record

August 25, 2010

15

Ord. No. 1037-10.
By Council Members Brady, Miller and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. 69299, for the West 121st Street Extension and Reconstruction Project, with Fabrizi Trucking &
Paving Company, Inc., for the Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to make the following alterations and modification
in Contract No. 69299 with Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Company, Inc. for the West 121st Street Extension and
Reconstruction Project, for the Department of Public Service:
SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS
BID
ITEM
NO.

DESCRIPTION

ROADWAY
1
ITEM
2
ITEM
3
ITEM
4
ITEM
ITEM
5
6
7
8

ITEM
ITEM
ITEM

9

ITEM

10

ITEM

11
12
13

ITEM
ITEM
ITEM

202
202
202
202
203

UNIT

—
—
—
—
—

PAVEMENT REMOVED AS PER D-15
PAVEMENT REMOVED FOR DRIVES
WALK REMOVED
CURB REMOVED
EXCAVATION NOT INCLUDING
EMBANKMENT CONSTRUCTION
204 — SUBGRADE COMPACTION
204 — PROOF ROLLING
SPECIAL — GEOTEXTILE FABRIC, 712.09,
TYPE D, AS PER PLAN
SPECIAL — UNDERCUTTING SUBGRADE AND
SUBBASE, AS PER D-16, AS PER PLAN
604 — MONUMENT BOX ASSEMBLY REMOVED,
REPLACED AND SET TO GRADE,
AS PER D-41
608 — 6" CONCRETE WALK AS PER D-23
653 — 4" TOPSOIL FURNISHED & PLACED
608 — 8" CONCRETE WALK, AS PER D-23

SQ.
SQ.
SQ.
LIN

TOTAL
QUANTITY

BID UNIT
COST

ITEM
TOTAL

YD.
YD.
FT.
FT

2,532
185
800
1,593

$9.00
$6.00
$1.00
$4.00

$22,788.00
$1,110.00
$800.00
$6,372.00

CU. YD.
SQ. YD.
HOUR

292
2,532
4

$9.00
$1.00
$70.00

$2,628.00
$2,532.00
$280.00

SQ. YD.

2,532

$1.00

$2,532.00

CU. YD.

844

$58.00

$48,952.00

EACH
SQ. FT.
CU. YD.
SQ. FT.

1
800
25
268

$250.00
$4.90
$24.00
$5.45

$250.00
$3,920.00
$600.00
$1,460.60

SUBTOTAL ROADWAY

$94,224.60

DRAINAGE
14
ITEM 603 — 4" CONDUIT, TYPE F FOR UNDERDRAIN
OUTLETS
15
ITEM 603 — 12" CONDUIT, TYPE B 706.08, VCP-ES,
WITH 706.12 JOINTS, AS PER D-32
16
ITEM 604 — CITY OF CLEVELAND CATCH BASIN
NO. 1, AS PER D-34
17
ITEM 605 — 4" SHALLOW PIPE UNDERDRAIN
WITH FABRIC WRAP

LIN. FT.

40

$7.00

$280.00

LIN. FT.

60

$45.00

$2,700.00

3

$1,550.00

$4,650.00

1,593

$7.00

EACH
LIN. FT.

SUBTOTAL DRAINAGE

$11,151.00
$18,781.00

PAVEMENT
18
ITEM 304 — 6" AGGREGATE BASE
19
ITEM 452 — 8" NON-REINFORCED CONCRETE
PAVEMENT, FOR DRIVEWAYS,
AS PER D-23
20
ITEM 452 — 10" NON-REINFORCED CONCRETE
PAVEMENT, AS PER D-23
21
ITEM 609 — CURB, TYPE 3-A, AS PER D-26
22
ITEM SPECIAL — CONCRETE SEALER, AS PER D-28

SQ. YD.

2,532

$5.50

$13,926.00

SQ. YD.

185

$50.00

$9,250.00

2,532
1,593
2,532

$47.00
$2.00
$2.50

$119,004.00
$3,186.00
$6,330.00

SQ. YD.
LIN. FT.
SQ.YD

SUBTOTAL PAVEMENT

$151,696.00

TRAFFIC CONTROL
23
ITEM 646 — CENTER LINE

MILE

0.17

$6,000.00

SUBTOTAL TRAFFIC CONTROL

$1,020.00
$1,020.00

WATERWORK
24
E-12C1 — Adjust Existing Valve Box to Grade
25
E-12C2 — Adjust Existing Curb Shut-off Valve Box
to Grade
26
E-12C3 — Adjust Existing Vault/Manhole Frame and
Cover to Grade
SUBTOTAL WATERWORK

Each

5

$50.00

$250.00

Each

6

$25.00

$150.00

Each

2

$225.00

$450.00
$850.00

1309

The City Record

16

TESTING
ITEM SPECIAL — CONCRETE CYLINDER TEST
27
(4 SPECIMENS PER SET),
AS PER D-73
ITEM SPECIAL — SUBSEQUENT SLUMP AND
28
TEMPERATURE TEST, AS PER D-73
29
ITEM SPECIAL — SUBSEQUENT AIR CONTENT AND
TEMPERATURE TEST, AS PER D-73
30
ITEM SPECIAL — FLEXURAL STRENGTH OF
CONCRETE (BEAM) TEST (ASTM C-78),
AS PER D-73
31
ITEM SPECIAL — TECHNICIAN WITH NUCLEAR
DENSITY METER (SUBGRADE
COMPACTION, SUBBASE), AS PER D-73
32
ITEM SPECIAL — PROCTOR TEST, AS PER D-73

August 25, 2010

SETS

8

$10.00

$80.00

EACH

15

$5.00

$75.00

EACH

8

$5.00

$40.00

EACH

8

$10.00

$80.00

HOUR
EACH

12
8

$15.00
$20.00

$180.00
$160.00

SUBTOTAL TESTING

$615.00

GENERAL
ITEM 614 — MAINTAINING TRAFFIC, AS PER PLAN
33
34
ITEM 623 — CONSTRUCTION LAYOUT STAKES,
AS PER D-47
ITEM SPECIAL — RECORD DRAWINGS AS PER DS-1
35
36
ITEM SPECIAL — PRE-CONSTRUCTION VIDEOGRAPHY,
AS PER D-36

LUMP

LUMP

$500.00

$500.00

LUMP
LUMP

LUMP
LUMP

$5,500.00
$250.00

$5,500.00
$250.00

LUMP

LUMP

$750.00

SUBTOTAL GENERAL

$750.00
$7,000.00

SUBTOTAL OF SUBSIDIARY ITEMS
Subtotal of Subsidiary Items
Contingency Amount from Phase 1
Total Subsidiary Amount
ORIGINAL CONTRACT AMOUNT
TOTAL SUBSIDIARY AMOUNT
NEW CONTRACT AMOUNT

$274,186.60
$274,186.60
- 90,463.25
$183,723.35
$698,343.65
+183,723.35
$882,067.00

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director of Public Service, countersigned by the Mayor,
and consented to by the surety on the contract, which price to be paid has been agreed on in writing and signed
by the Director of Public Service, and the Contractor. This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the
original contract in the sum of $183,723.35, to be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500,
20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, and 20 SF 534, Request No. RQS 4004 RL 2010-147.
Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1038-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing
Agreement
with
6200
Euclid Avenue, LLC, a real estate
holding company for Royal Ice
Cream Company dba Pierre’s Ice
Cream,
to
make
real
property
improvements needed for the relocation of Pierre’s Ice Cream Company’s manufacturing facility to
6200 Euclid Avenue; to provide for
payments to the Cleveland City
School District; and to declare certain improvements to real property
to be a public purpose.
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, improvements to
real property may be declared to be
a public purpose where fee title to
the real property was, at one time,
held by the City of Cleveland and
the real property is then leased or
conveyed by the City; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 794-10, passed June 7,
2010, and prior to the adoption of
this ordinance, the City approved
both the acquisition and conveyance

of fee title to certain real property,
which is more fully described in the
file below (the “Real Property”);
and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the improvements
declared to be a public purpose may
be exempt from real property taxation; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the owners of the
improvements may be required to
make annual service payments in
lieu of taxes that would have been
paid had the improvement not been
exempt; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the exemption
may exceed 75% of the improvements for up to 30 years when a portion of the service payments so collected are distributed to the Cleveland City School District (“District”)
in an amount equal to the amount
the District would have received
had
the
improvement
not
been
exempt; and
Whereas, the District has been
notified of the intent to enter into
the agreement authorized by this
ordinance in compliance with Sections 5709.41(C)(4) and 5709.83 of
the Revised Code; and

1310

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the real property
improvements to be constructed by
6200 Euclid Avenue, LLC, a real
estate holding company for Royal
Ice Cream Company, dba Pierre’s
Ice Cream (“Redeveloper”), needed
for the relocation of Pierre’s Ice
Cream
Company’s
manufacturing
facility
to
6200
Euclid
Avenue
(“Improvements”), are declared to
be a public purpose for purposes of
Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code,
and are more fully described in File
No. 1038-10-A.
Section 2. That one hundred percent (100%) of the Improvements
are declared exempt from real property taxation for a period of 30
years; and that in no event shall the
exemption period extend beyond
2040.
Section 3. That, under Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code, Redeveloper (or the owners of the
Improvements) shall make service
payments for a period of 30 years in

August 25, 2010
lieu of the exempt taxes to the
Cuyahoga County Treasurer; the
payments shall be charged and collected in the same manner, and shall
be in an amount not less than the
taxes that would have been paid
had the Improvements not been
exempt from taxation.
Section 4. That a portion of the
service payments collected under
Section 3 of this ordinance shall be
distributed by the Cuyahoga County
Treasurer to the Treasurer of the
District in the amount of the taxes
that would have been payable to the
District had the Improvement not
been exempt from taxation.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement or
agreements with Redeveloper to provide for the exemption and service
payments described in this ordinance, including agreements securing the payments described in Section 3 of this ordinance, which
agreement or agreements shall contain those terms contained the file
mentioned above.
Section 6. That under Section
5709.43 of the Revised Code, there is
established a 6200 Euclid Urban
Redevelopment
Tax
Increment
Equivalent Fund (“6200 Euclid TIF
Fund”) which shall be used as a
debt reserve for the loan authorized
by Ordinance No. 713-10, passed June
7, 2010 or for other economic development purposes as determined by
the Director of Economic Development.
Section 7. That it is found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this ordinance
were adopted in open meetings of
this Council, and any of its committees that resulted in formal action
were in meetings open to the public
in compliance with the law.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1039-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 5 of
Ordinance No. 795-10, passed June 7,
2010, relating to acquiring and reconveying properties for chain-oftitle purposes needed before adopting tax increment financing legislation, by changing the name of LCA
6700 Euclid, LLC to Dunham Square
Land, LLC, or its designee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 5 of Ordinance No. 79510, passed June 7, 2010, are amended to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance autho-

The City Record
rizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire and
re-convey
properties
presently
owned by Dunham Square Land,
LLC, or its designee located on
Euclid Avenue between East 67th
Street and East 69th Street for the
purpose of entering into the chainof-title prior to the adoption of tax
increment
financing
legislation
authorized under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code; and authorizing
an agreement with Dunham Square
Land, LLC, or its designee.
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire from and reconvey to, Dunham Square Land, LLC, or its
designee for a price of one dollar
and other valuable considerations
determined as fair market value, the
following property for the purpose
of entering into the chain-of-title
prior to the adoption of tax increment financial legislation authorized under Section 5709.41 of the
Code
and
more
fully
Revised
described as follows:
SURVEYOR’S LEGAL
DESCRIPTION OF
P.P.N. 118-13-007 through 016
P.P.N. 118-13-018 through 025
P.P.N. 118-13-031 through 033

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 338, and
being further bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a p.k. nail set at the
intersection of the centerlines of
Euclid Avenue (width varies) and
East 69th Street (formerly Euclid
Place)(44 feet wide);
Thence
South
01°01'48"
East
along the centerline of East 69th
Street, 40.10 feet;
Thence
North
86°55'34"
West,
22.06 feet to a drill hole set at the
intersection of the westerly right of
way of East 69th Street and the
southerly right of way of Euclid
Avenue and being the PRINCIPAL
PLACE
OF
BEGINNING
of
the
premises herein described;
Thence South 01° 01' 48" East
along the westerly right of way of
East 69th Street, 370.00 feet to a drill
hole set at the northeasterly corner
of land conveyed to northeast corner
of land conveyed to Roderick Nassif
(PPN 118-13-017) by deed recorded in
Auditor’s File Number 20010920811 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence South 88° 58' 12" West
along the northerly line of land so
conveyed, 114.50 feet to a 5/8" x 30"
iron pin set on the northwesterly
corner thereof;
Thence South 01° 01' 48" East
along the westerly line of land so
conveyed, 33.33 feet to a 5/8" x 30"
iron pin set at the southwesterly
corner of land so conveyed to Roderick thereof;
Thence North 88° 58' 12" East
along the southerly line of land so
conveyed, 114.50 feet to a drill hole
set on the westerly right of way of
said East 69th Street;
Thence South 01° 01' 48" East
along the westerly right of way of
East 69th Street, 323.67 feet to a drill
hole set at the northeasterly corner
of land conveyed to Roderick Nassif
(PPN 118-13-026) by deed recorded in
Auditor’s File Number 200010301451
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;

1311

17
Thence South 88° 58' 12" West
along the northerly line of land so
conveyed, 114.50 feet to a 5/8" iron
pin set on the easterly line of land
conveyed to Rory Nassif, MD (PPN
118-13-028) by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200010301451 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence North 01° 01' 48" West
along the easterly line of land so
conveyed, 103.74 feet to a 5/8" iron
pin found (0.03 feet north and 0.01
feet east) and being the northeasterly corner of land conveyed to Rory
Nassif M.D. (PPN 118-13-028), said
point being North 01 01' 48" West,
217.00 feet from the northerly right
of way of Carnegie Avenue S. E.
(formerly East Prospect Street) (80
feet wide);
Thence South 88° 13' 51" West
and parallel to Carnegie Avenue S.
E., 148.01 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
at the northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to Aron Crenshaw (P.P.N.
118-13-030) by deed dated December
11, 1986 and recorded in Volume 868053, Page 40 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records;
Thence South 01° 01' 48" East
along the westerly line of land so
conveyed, 217.00 feet to the northerly right of way of said Carnegie
Avenue S.E.;
Thence South 88° 13' 51" West
along the northerly right of way of
said Carnegie Avenue S.E., 182.05
feet to a 5/8" x 30" iron pin set at
the southeasterly corner of land conveyed
to
3600
Properties,
LLC
(P.P.N. 118-13-006) by deed dated
September 12, 2006 and recorded in
Auditor’s File Number 200609120400
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence North 01° 01' 48" West
along the easterly line of land so
conveyed, 230.00 feet to a 5/8" x 30"
iron pin set;
Thence North 88° 13' 51" East
along a southerly line of land so
conveyed, 0.78 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
found (0.01 feet south, 0.11 feet
east);
Thence North 01° 01' 48" West
along the easterly line of land so
conveyed to Woodland-East 39th
Street Corporation (P.P.N. 118-13-005)
by deed dated April 27, 2001 and
recorded in Auditor’s File Number
200104271014 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, 646.35 feet to a 5/8"
x 30" iron pin set on the southerly
right of way of said Euclid Avenue;
Thence South 86° 55' 34" East
along southerly right of way of
Euclid Avenue, 131.59 feet to a 5/8"
x 30" iron pin set at the northwesterly corner of land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland by deed recorded
in Volume 4094, Page 230 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence South 01° 01' 48" East
along the westerly line of land so
conveyed to the City of Cleveland,
20.05 feet to 5/8" x 30" iron pin set;
Thence South 86° 55' 34" East
along southerly line of land so conveyed to the City of Cleveland,
198.52 feet to a 5/8" x 30" iron pin
set at the southeasterly corner of
land so conveyed to the City of
Cleveland;
Thence North 01° 01' 48" West
along the easterly line of land so
conveyed to the City of Cleveland,
20.05 feet to a drill hole set on the
southerly right of way of the said
Euclid Avenue;
Thence South 86° 55' 34" East
along the southerly right of way of
Euclid Avenue, 114.79 feet to the
PRINCIPAL
PLACE
OF
BEGINNING, containing 7.5286 acres of
land as surveyed and described by
Edward B. Dudley, Registered Surveyor No. 6747, of the Riverstone
Company in May of 2010 and subject

18
to all legal highways, restrictions,
reservations
and
easements
of
record.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Dunham Square Land, LLC, or
its designee which shall include the
terms and conditions of the transaction authorized by this ordinance.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 5 of Ordinance
No. 795-10, passed June 7, 2010, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

The City Record
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1040-10.
By Council Members Pruitt
and
Sweeney (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers, Local 439.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B)
of Section 4117.10 of the Revised
Code, this Council approves the collective bargaining agreement with
The International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers,
Local 439, under the terms contained
in File No. 1040-10-A, for the period
from April 1, 2010 through March 31,
2013, and which provides, among
other things, for an increase in the

August 25, 2010
salaries and wages for members of
the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate
Date of Increase

0%
0%
3%

April 1, 2010
April 1, 2011
April 1, 2012

Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1041-10.
By Council Members Pruitt and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 8 and 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended
by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections:
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 316-09, passed March 16,
2009, Ordinance No. 408-09, passed March 30, 2009, Ordinance No. 778-09, passed June 1, 2009, Ordinance No. 175409, passed November 30, 2009, and Ordinance No. 720-10, passed June 7, 2010; and
Section 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1009-08, passed July 2,
2008, Ordinance No. 316-09, passed March 16, 2009, and Ordinance No. 408-09, passed March 30, 2009, are amended
to read as follows:
Section 8. International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council 8 AFL-CIO. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:
Minimum
Maximum
1.
Accountant I .................................................................................
$10.00
$19.61
2.
Accountant II ...............................................................................
$10.00
$21.52
3.
Accountant III..............................................................................
$10.00
$23.86
4.
Accountant Clerk I.....................................................................
$10.00
$15.90
5.
Accountant Clerk II...................................................................
$10.00
$17.17
6.
Activities Therapist ...................................................................
$10.00
$15.11
7.
AIDS Support Services Coordinator .....................................
$10.49
$16.89
8.
Air Pollution Control Engineer I .........................................
$10.00
$25.23
9.
Air Pollution Control Engineer II .......................................
$10.00
$26.59
10.
Air Pollution Control Engineer III .....................................
$10.00
$28.02
11.
Air Pollution Engineer .............................................................
$12.04
$19.70
12.
Air Pollution Inspector I .........................................................
$12.12
$20.29
13.
Air Pollution Inspector II .......................................................
$10.00
$22.64
14.
Air Pollution Technician I......................................................
$10.00
$21.52
15.
Air Pollution Technician II ....................................................
$10.00
$22.64
16.
Air Pollution Technician III ..................................................
$10.00
$25.23
17.
Airport Information Representative ....................................
$10.02
$16.48
18.
Airport Operations Agent I.....................................................
$14.14
$20.37
19.
Airport Operations Agent II...................................................
$17.77
$23.98
20.
Airport Safety Man ....................................................................
$14.19
$23.93
21.
Architect .........................................................................................
$10.00
$29.66
22.
Associate Engineer.....................................................................
$17.83
$27.74
23.
Assistant Buyer ...........................................................................
$10.00
$20.59
24.
Assistant City Planner .............................................................
$10.00
$21.52
25.
Assistant Civil Engineer..........................................................
$10.00
$21.52
26.
Assistant Electrical Engineer................................................
$10.00
$21.52
27.
Assistant Mechanical Engineer .............................................
$10.00
$21.52
28.
Assistant Residential Plan Examiner ................................
$13.42
$22.64
29.
Associate Programmer ..............................................................
$10.00
$23.05
30.
Bacteriologist................................................................................
$10.00
$23.86
31.
Bill Collector.................................................................................
$10.02
$16.48
32.
Billing Clerk .................................................................................
$10.00
$16.47

1312

August 25, 2010
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.

The City Record

Building Inspector ......................................................................
Building Inspector I ..................................................................
Building Inspector II ................................................................
Building Inspector III...............................................................
Building Inspector IV ...............................................................
Business Certification Officer ................................................
Camera Room Operator ............................................................
Caseworker I ................................................................................
Caseworker II ..............................................................................
Cashier/Starter .............................................................................
Chemist ...........................................................................................
Chief Miscellaneous Investigator..........................................
Citizens Information Representative...................................
Civil Engineer ..............................................................................
Claims Examiner.........................................................................
Clerk Typist..................................................................................
Clinical Laboratory Assistant ................................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician I .........................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician II .......................................
Cocaine Treatment Counselor I ............................................
Cocaine Intake Specialist ........................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration I.....................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration II ...................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration III .................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Trainee....................................................................
Community Development Planner ........................................
Community Health Aide...........................................................
Community Relations Representative I .............................
Community Relations Representative II ...........................
Community Relations Representative III..........................
Composing Equipment Operator............................................
Computer Monitor Assistant ...................................................
Computer Operator......................................................................
Construction Technician...........................................................
Consumer Protection Specialist .............................................
Contract and Monitoring Specialist .....................................
Cook .................................................................................................
Copy Center Operator................................................................
Cost Construction Estimator...................................................
Customer Service Representative .........................................
Data Control Clerk.....................................................................
Data Conversion Operator .......................................................
Dental Assistant ..........................................................................
Development Officer ..................................................................
Dietician .........................................................................................
Disease Surveillance Specialist .............................................
Drug and Alcohol Counselor ..................................................
Electrical Engineer ....................................................................
Electronic Engineer ...................................................................
Elevator Inspector ......................................................................
Engineer .........................................................................................
Environmental Compliance Specialist I .............................
Environmental Compliance Specialist II ...........................
Environmental Compliance Specialist III .........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist I...........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist II.........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist III .......................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist I ..............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist II ............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist III...........................
Environmental Technician ......................................................
Family Planning Clerk.............................................................
Financial Analyst .......................................................................
Financial Counselor ...................................................................
First Press Operator ..................................................................
Fuel System Technician...........................................................
General Health Aide..................................................................
General Storekeeper ...................................................................
Geriatric Outreach Worker .....................................................
Hardware Analyst ......................................................................

1313

19
$14.26
$14.08
$14.89
$15.70
$26.35
$11.15
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00

$21.88
$23.88
$25.23
$26.59
$27.97
$33.01
$18.73
$17.89
$19.61
$19.62
$26.07
$22.64
$18.73
$29.66
$22.64
$12.29
$18.73
$21.52
$23.05
$17.82
$16.03

$14.05

$23.88

$14.89

$25.23

$15.70

$26.59

$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$12.02
$10.00
$10.00
$11.38
$10.00
$10.00
$10.03
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.42
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.23
$22.78
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$13.33
$14.18
$15.74
$12.35
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$12.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.48

$19.74
$28.54
$15.89
$18.73
$22.64
$28.02
$20.59
$13.61
$22.64
$22.64
$17.89
$23.95
$15.48
$18.19
$22.04
$17.16
$16.49
$14.94
$15.58
$26.58
$19.61
$31.54
$14.58
$29.66
$30.20
$24.00
$33.78
$22.55
$23.62
$30.39
$23.48
$24.60
$25.80
$23.28
$24.37
$25.53
$17.91
$13.74
$21.52
$22.64
$21.60
$19.99
$15.90
$24.24
$21.52
$49.45

20
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.

The City Record
Hazardous Material Specialist ...............................................
Head Cook .....................................................................................
Head Storekeeper ........................................................................
Health Educator I ......................................................................
Health Educator II ....................................................................
Heating Inspector .......................................................................
Help Desk Analyst.....................................................................
HIV Educator ...............................................................................
Home Maintenance Aide ..........................................................
House Connection Inspector ...................................................
Residential Building Inspector ..............................................
Human Resources Contract Specialist ................................
Human Resources On-the-Job Training Specialist .........
Human Resources Planner ......................................................
Human Resources Special Projects Coordinator.............
Income Tax Tracer ....................................................................
Industrial Hygiene Engineer .................................................
Industrial Nuisance Inspector ................................................
Information Control Analyst ..................................................
Inspector of Weight and Measures .....................................
Instrumentation Technician I ................................................
Instrumentation Technician II ..............................................
Instrument Repairman ..............................................................
Intake Specialist .........................................................................
Interim Building Inspector .....................................................
Interim Mechanical Inspector ................................................
Interim Residential Building Inspector .............................
Interim Residential Plan Examiner ....................................
Job Retraining Assistant .........................................................
Junior Cashier..............................................................................
Junior Chemist .............................................................................
Junior City Planner ...................................................................
Junior Civil Engineer ...............................................................
Junior Clerk ..................................................................................
Junior Draftsman........................................................................
Junior Engineering Aide .........................................................
Lab Coordinator...........................................................................
Laboratory Assistant .................................................................
Laboratory Helper ......................................................................
Landscape Architect...................................................................
Lead Pressman.............................................................................
Life Guard .....................................................................................
Life Guard Captain ....................................................................
Mechanical Engineer .................................................................
Mechanical Inspector I .............................................................
Mechanical Inspector II ...........................................................
Mechanical Inspector III..........................................................
Medical Billing Reimbursement Specialist .......................
Medical Coder and Billing Analyst .....................................
Messenger.......................................................................................
Meter Reader ................................................................................
Miscellaneous Investigator ......................................................
Monitoring, Auditing and Evaluation
Coordinator ................................................................................
Network Analyst I......................................................................
Office Machine Operator ..........................................................
On The Job Training Specialist ...........................................
Park and Recreation Planner ................................................
Parking Attendant......................................................................
Parking Meter Collector...........................................................
Parking Meter Serviceman......................................................
Permit Processing Specialist ..................................................
Pharmacist .....................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation
Counselor I ................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation
Counselor II ..............................................................................
Photographer ................................................................................
Photographic Laboratory Technician..................................
Photo-Litho Operator..................................................................
Physical Director I.....................................................................
Physical Director II...................................................................
Residential Plan Examiner.....................................................
Play Director ................................................................................

1314

August 25, 2010
$21.63
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.23
$12.02
$10.00
$10.00
$12.70
$14.60
$10.00
$10.21
$10.74
$10.21
$10.04
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$16.87
$18.83
$10.00
$10.00
$19.00
$19.00
$15.75
$20.25
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$16.82
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.08
$14.89
$15.70
$10.42
$10.17
$10.00
$12.82
$10.00

$31.70
$17.14
$22.39
$19.62
$21.52
$21.88
$24.59
$12.53
$15.89
$18.29
$20.46
$29.65
$25.21
$31.32
$25.21
$17.34
$29.65
$19.62
$20.53
$17.38
$21.07
$23.22
$20.75
$15.90
$19.77
$19.77
$16.39
$21.07
$21.52
$16.48
$17.17
$19.62
$19.62
$13.73
$16.84
$17.17
$26.10
$18.73
$14.80
$28.02
$21.83
$15.69
$19.43
$29.65
$23.88
$25.23
$26.59
$21.42
$22.07
$14.80
$18.71
$18.08

$13.65
$14.52
$10.00
$12.71
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$13.62
$10.00
$10.74

$21.85
$34.25
$14.39
$21.11
$28.02
$15.90
$15.87
$16.69
$13.32
$31.31

$10.00

$15.20

$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00

$17.95
$21.52
$18.73
$17.17
$19.35
$20.88
$25.59
$13.57

August 25, 2010
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.
224.
225.
226.
227.
228.
229.
230.
231.
232.
233.
234.
235.
236.
237.
238.
239.
240.
241.
242.
243.
244.
245.
246.

The City Record

Police Data Specialist ...............................................................
Police Radio Technician ..........................................................
Pressman ........................................................................................
Preventive Health Counselor..................................................
Preventive Health Educator ...................................................
Principal Cashier ........................................................................
Principal Clerk ............................................................................
Print Shop Helper.......................................................................
Private Secretary ........................................................................
Program Analyst .........................................................................
Programmer...................................................................................
Programmer Analyst..................................................................
Property Clerk .............................................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker.......................................................
Psychologist I ..............................................................................
Psychologist II.............................................................................
Public Health Nursing Aide ...................................................
Public Health Sanitarian I .....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian II....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian III..................................................
Public Health Sanitarian IV ..................................................
Public Information Officer ......................................................
Quality Assurance Analyst .....................................................
Quality Control Coordinator ...................................................
Radio Dispatcher.........................................................................
Radio Technician ........................................................................
Receptionist ...................................................................................
Records Manager ........................................................................
Recreation Aide ...........................................................................
Recreation Instructor ................................................................
Recreation Instructor I.............................................................
Recreation Instructor II ...........................................................
Recreation Instructor III .........................................................
Recreation Program Supervisor ............................................
Redevelopment Advisor ............................................................
Redevelopment Coordinator ....................................................
Refrigeration Inspector ............................................................
Refugee Outreach Worker.......................................................
Registered Animal Health Technician ...............................
Rehabilitation Advisor ..............................................................
Rehabilitation Inspector ...........................................................
Sanitarian Aide ............................................................................
Second Press Operator ..............................................................
Secretary.........................................................................................
Secretary to Director of Consumer Affairs ......................
Senior Assistant Architect.......................................................
Senior Assistant City Planner ...............................................
Senior Assistant Civil Engineer ...........................................
Senior Assistant Electrical Engineer..................................
Senior Assistant Mechanical Engineer...............................
Senior Assistant Traffic Engineer .......................................
Senior Bacteriologist..................................................................
Senior Cashier ..............................................................................
Senior Chemist .............................................................................
Senior Clerk ..................................................................................
Senior Computer Operator .......................................................
Senior Contract and Monitoring Specialist .......................
Senior Data Conversion Operator .........................................
Senior Development Officer ....................................................
Senior Draftsman ........................................................................
Senior Engineering Draftsman and
Photographer ............................................................................
Senior Information Control Analyst ....................................
Senior Laboratory Technician................................................
Senior Landscape Architect ....................................................
Senior Site Inspector – Demolition ......................................
Sewer Service Man .....................................................................
Site Inspector................................................................................
Social Worker for Homeless ..................................................
Starter (Golf) ...............................................................................
S.T.D. Clerk ...................................................................................
Stenographer I .............................................................................
Stenographer II............................................................................
Stenographer III..........................................................................

1315

21
$10.00
$16.38
$10.00
$13.59
$10.00
$10.00
$11.93
$10.61
$10.00
$16.64
$10.00
$10.00
$11.37
$12.48
$10.74
$12.88
$10.63
$12.78
$14.35
$15.49
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$16.82
$17.33
$16.38
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.26
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.60
$11.62
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.29
$10.00
$11.34
$10.80
$12.63
$10.00

$17.90
$20.38
$21.12
$21.89
$14.71
$23.05
$19.51
$14.52
$20.59
$29.84
$26.59
$29.84
$33.04
$21.46
$28.55
$33.65
$13.71
$21.25
$22.91
$24.05
$29.55
$22.64
$26.58
$26.11
$20.38
$20.38
$15.16
$15.89
$10.93
$15.90
$16.94
$17.58
$18.60
$17.30
$23.87
$26.59
$21.88
$14.79
$15.90
$20.59
$26.57
$15.42
$19.32
$17.17
$28.02
$23.87
$23.87
$23.87
$23.87
$23.87
$23.87
$20.59
$19.61
$22.64
$16.10
$26.59
$28.18
$17.90
$34.88
$19.24

$10.00
$10.00
$10.86
$10.00
$10.00
$14.99
$10.00
$13.82
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.77
$10.00

$21.52
$22.64
$17.51
$29.65
$25.21
$18.71
$22.64
$22.27
$13.16
$12.71
$14.42
$16.10
$17.89

22
247.
248.
249.
250.
251.
252.
253.
254.
255.
256.
257.
258.
259.
260.
261.
262.
263.
264.
265.
266.
267.
268.
269.
270.
271.
272.
273.

The City Record
Stock Clerk....................................................................................
Storekeeper ....................................................................................
Street Obstruction Inspector ...................................................
Surveyor..........................................................................................
Tax Auditor I...............................................................................
Tax Auditor II .............................................................................
Technical Specialist ...................................................................
Technical Specifications Writer ............................................
Telecommunications Analyst I ..............................................
Telephone Operator ....................................................................
Telephone Supervisor ................................................................
Timekeeper ....................................................................................
Traffic Engineer .........................................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Technician ...............................
Trainee Building Inspector .....................................................
Trainee Residential Plan Examiner ...................................
Typist ..............................................................................................
Urban Planning and Development Technician ...............
Utility Adjuster............................................................................
Vector Control Assistant ..........................................................
Veteran’s Counselor ...................................................................
Water Hydraulic Repairman ..................................................
Water Meter Repairman ..........................................................
Water Pipe Repairman .............................................................
Water Serviceman.......................................................................
Water System Construction Inspector ................................
Web Content Editor ...................................................................

August 25, 2010
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.60
$12.41
$10.00
$10.00
$14.53
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$13.68
$18.60
$18.25
$10.00
$10.00
$10.64
$10.00
$10.00
$14.99
$14.99
$13.58
$10.00
$15.67
$10.00

$17.70
$20.16
$18.73
$26.59
$18.20
$20.13
$22.64
$23.88
$41.21
$16.48
$17.17
$17.17
$28.02
$17.17
$19.74
$20.51
$14.94
$14.95
$16.10
$14.33
$19.49
$18.71
$18.71
$20.51
$15.98
$23.38
$28.90

Section 24. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:
Minimum

Maximum

1.

Apprentice Cable Splicer..........................................................

$22.22

$24.89

2.

Apprentice Lineman ...................................................................

$22.39

$25.07

3.

Cable Foreman .............................................................................

$31.45

$33.25

4.

Cable Splicer .................................................................................

$17.46

$27.87

5.

Cable Splicer Helper..................................................................

$20.44

$24.24

6.

Cable Splicer I .............................................................................

$28.15

$29.82

7.

Cable Splicer II ...........................................................................

$17.14

$27.35

8.

Dispatcher Electric System Operator ..................................

$26.52

$28.91

Electric Meter Industrial Installer ......................................

$28.05

$29.71

9.
10.

Electric Meter Instrument Specialist and
General Tester .........................................................................

$28.37

$30.04

11.

Electric Meter Service Foremen............................................

$31.45

$33.25

12.

Electric Meter Service Installer I ........................................

$26.12

$28.24

13.

Electric Meter Service Installer II ......................................

$24.35

$25.86

14.

Electric Meterman Apprentice ...............................................

$21.91

$24.52

15.

Electric Motor and Transformer Repairman ...................

$17.38

$27.70

16.

Electric Switchboard Operator Foreman ...........................

$31.45

$33.25

17.

Electric Transmission and Distribution Inspector.........

$28.15

$30.36

18.

Foreman Low Tension ..............................................................

$30.91

$32.68

19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.

Gas Turbine Mechanic ..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic Apprentice .......................................
Interim Apprentice .....................................................................
Junior Electric Switchboard Operator ................................
Line Clearance Man ...................................................................
Line Foreman ...............................................................................
Line Helper Driver.....................................................................
Line Switchman ...........................................................................
Leader Lineman Low-Tension ................................................
Lineman ..........................................................................................
Lineman Leader...........................................................................
Low Tension Lineman ..............................................................
Low Tension Lineman Apprentice .......................................
Low Tension Trouble Lineman .............................................
Police Division Trouble Lineman.........................................
Safety Signal Trouble Lineman ............................................
Senior Cable Splicer...................................................................
Senior Electric Switchboard Operator.................................
Senior Lineman ............................................................................

$17.38
$22.22
$10.00
$22.36
$22.00
$31.45
$17.73
$30.16
$29.99
$28.15
$26.27
$29.99
$21.95
$29.40
$19.19
$19.19
$29.65
$24.63
$29.65

$28.23
$24.89
$31.38
$23.80
$24.72
$34.03
$24.25
$32.69
$31.73
$29.82
$27.86
$31.73
$24.19
$31.11
$30.56
$30.56
$31.38
$26.16
$31.38

1316

August 25, 2010
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.

The City Record

23

Signal System Powerman ........................................................
Telecommunications Technician ...........................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician .......................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician 2 ...................................
Transformer Repairman Foreman........................................
Trouble Lineman.........................................................................
Underground Conduit Foreman .............................................

$19.54
$29.40
$31.11
$30.60
$31.45
$29.65
$31.45

$31.12
$31.11
$32.90
$32.36
$33.25
$32.42
$33.25

Section 2. That the following existing sections:
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 316-09, passed March 16,
2009, Ordinance No. 408-09, passed March 30, 2009, Ordinance No. 778-09, passed June 1, 2009, Ordinance No. 175409, passed November 30, 2009, and Ordinance No. 720-10, passed June 7, 2010; and
Section 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1009-08, passed July 2,
2008, Ordinance No. 316-09, passed March 16, 2009, and Ordinance No. 408-09, passed March 30, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1042-10.
By Council Members Pruitt and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 45 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by various
ordinance, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 45 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 316-09,
passed March 16, 2009, Ordinance No. 1265-09, passed September 14, 2009, and Ordinance No. 1753-09, passed November 30, 2009, is amended to read as follows:
Section 45. Hourly Rate – Building & Construction Trades Council
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Asbestos Worker .........................................................................
Boiler Maker .................................................................................
Bricklayer ......................................................................................
Bricklayer Foreman ...................................................................
Carpenter ........................................................................................
Carpenter Foreman.....................................................................
Carpenter Apprentice.................................................................
Cement Finisher ..........................................................................
Cement Finisher Foreman.......................................................
Electrical Worker .......................................................................
Electrical Worker Foreman ....................................................
Glazier .............................................................................................
Ironworker .....................................................................................
Ironworker Foreman..................................................................
Painter.............................................................................................
Painter – Apprentice .................................................................
Painter Foreman .........................................................................
Pipefitter (Welder) ....................................................................
Pipefitter Foreman .....................................................................
Plasterer .........................................................................................
Plasterer Foreman ......................................................................
Plumber (Welder).......................................................................
Plumber Foreman .......................................................................
Roofer ..............................................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker ...................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman................................................

Effective
Date
5/1/10
7/1/10
5/1/09
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
8/1/10
8/1/10
6/1/10
6/1/10
6/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10

Minimum
$40.40
$43.57
$34.19
$35.44
$33.88
$35.13
$14.45
$34.41
$35.66
$41.84
$43.09
$33.06
$38.29
$39.54
$30.02
$14.46
$31.27
$40.42
$40.67
$33.45
$34.70
$41.34
$42.59
$34.60
$40.18
$41.43

Maximum
$50.50
$54.46
$42.74
$43.74
$42.35
$42.35
$18.06
$43.01
$43.76
$52.30
$52.30
$41.32
$47.86
$50.36
$37.53
$18.06
$39.02
$50.52
$41.67
$41.81
$42.81
$51.68
$53.18
$43.25
$50.23
$50.23

Section 2. That Section 45 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 316-09,
passed March 16, 2009, Ordinance No. 1265-09, passed September 14, 2009, and Ordinance No. 1753-09, passed November 30, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1317

24
Ord. No. 1043-10.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 10-10,
passed March 22, 2010, relating to
the 2009 Buffer Zone Protection Program and related contracts; to supplement the ordinance by adding
new Sections 7, 8, and 9; and to
renumber existing Section 7 to new
Section 10.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title of Ordinance No. 10-10, passed March 22,
2010, is amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety for the 2009 Buffer Zone Protection Program; authorizing the Director to enter into one or more requirement contracts for the purchase of
materials, equipment, supplies, services and training needed to implement the grant; authorizing the
Director to employ one or more professional consultants; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with Cuyahoga County to implement the grant, for the
Department of Public Safety.
Section 2. That the existing title
of Ordinance No. 10-10, passed March
22, 2010, is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 1010, passed March 22, 2010 is supplemented by adding new Sections 7, 8,
and 9 to read as follows:
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant term for the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies, services and training, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Public
Safety. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 8. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 9. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Safety may sign all documents that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.

The City Record
Section 4. That Section 7 of Ordinance No. 10-10, passed March 22,
2010, is renumbered to new “Section
10”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1044-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 797-10,
passed June 7, 2010, relating to the
exchange of real property between
the City and Pyrrhus, Inc. and
Borchert Fence Co. necessary for the
of
the
Green
City
development
Growers Greenhouse project; and to
renumber duplicate Sections 3, 4, 5,
and 6 of Ordinance No. 797-10, to new
Sections 5, 6, 7, and 8.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 797-10, passed June 7, 2010,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Directors of Economic Development, Community Development, and the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies are authorized to enter into one or more
agreements for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland with Pyrrhus, Inc.
providing for the exchange of real
property, including transfer of fee
title to Pyrrhus, Inc. for the development of the Green Growers Greenhouse project of some or all of the
following described City property:
Permanent Parcel Nos. 124-12-009 to
124-12-011, 124-12-012, 124-12-013, 12412-015, 124-12-020, 124-12-027, 124-12038 to 124-12-041, 124-12-048, 124-10049, and 124-12-089 to 092.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 797-10, passed June
7, 2010, is repealed.
Section 3. That, provided the City
of Cleveland cannot make an even
exchange with Pyrrhus, Inc. or
Borchert Fence Co. of the properties
listed
in
Ordinance
No.
797-10,
passed June 7, 2010, as amended by
this ordinance, and notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase any of the properties listed in Ordinance No. 797-10, passed
June 7, 2010, as amended by this
ordinance necessary for the development of the Green City Growers
Greenhouse project.
Section 4. That, provided the City
of Cleveland cannot make an even

1318

August 25, 2010
exchange with Pyrrhus, Inc. or
Borchert Fence Co. of the properties
listed
in
Ordinance
No.
797-10,
passed June 7, 2010, as amended by
this ordinance, the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
execute on behalf of the City of
Cleveland all necessary documents
to acquire the properties and to
employ and pay all fees for title
companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and
all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the property.
Section 5. That, provided the City
of Cleveland cannot make an even
exchange with Pyrrhus, Inc. or
Borchert Fence Co. of the properties
in
Ordinance
No.
797-10,
listed
passed June 7, 2010, as amended by
this ordinance, the consideration to
be paid for the property shall not
exceed fair market value as determined by the Board of Control.
Section 6. That all costs of acquisition of land under Ordinance No.
797-10, passed June 7, 2010, as
amended by this ordinance shall be
paid from Fund No. 17 SF 965.
Section 7. That existing duplicate
Sections 3, 4, 5, and 6 of Ordinance
No. 797-10, passed June 7, 2010, are
renumbered to new “Section 5”, “Section 6”, “Section 7”, and “Section 8”.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1045-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more
contracts with Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc. to provide financial assistance to support the acquisition, rehabilitation and sale of up
to 47 vacant townhouse units in the
Hill Place townhome project located
at the southwest corner of East 75th
Street and Woodland Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. to provide financial
assistance to support the acquisition, rehabilitation and sale of up to
47 vacant townhouse units in the
Hill Place townhome project located
at the southwest corner of East 75th
Street and Woodland Avenue.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loans shall be determined by the
Director of Community Development
in accordance with Federal regulations, State, and local laws, and the
director is authorized to amend the

August 25, 2010
terms, from time to time, as the
director deems necessary to remain
consistent with the laws and regulations.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept collateral as the
director deems adequate in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
and all security instrument agreements or other agreements shall be
prepared and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 14.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under federal regulations and expend the fees to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
the loan application, closing, and
servicing of the loan.
Section 6. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contract and any other documents as
may be appropriate to complete the
transactions.
Section 7. That the total cost of
the contract or contracts may not
exceed $950,000 and shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 14 SF 032, 19 SF 600
and 19 SF 640, Request No. RQS 8006
RL 2010-153.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1047-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
K. Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
at East 73rd Street and Carson
Avenue to Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Authority, for purposes of
residential redevelopment.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties has requested the sale of the City-owned
property to Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Agency (the “Redeveloper”)
no longer needed for public use and
located at East 73rd Street and Carson Avenue for purposes of residential development; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for
public use:

The City Record
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF
CONVEYANCE PARCEL
BEING PART OF
CITY OF CLEVELAND
P.P.N. 125-13-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
the County of Cuyahoga and the
State of Ohio and known as being
part of Original 100 Acre Lot Nos.
326 and 327 and further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the centerlines of East 73rd Street
(60 feet wide) and Carson Avenue
(Width Varies);
Thence along the westerly curved
centerline of Carson Avenue deflecting to the right, an arc of 109.12
feet, said curve having a radius of
770.26 feet and a chord that bears
North 59° 43' 25" West, 109.03 feet
to an iron pin found (0.12 feet North
and 0.17 feet West);
Thence North 55° 42' 43" West
continuing along the centerline of
Carson Avenue, 52.06 feet to a 1"
iron pin found at a point of curvature;
continuing
along
the
Thence
curved centerline of Carson Avenue
deflecting to the left, an arc of
143.59 feet, said curve having a
radius of 424.12 feet and a chord
that bears North 65° 24' 40" West,
142.91 feet to a point;
Thence North 15° 03' 06" East,
33.00 feet to a point on the northerly right-of-way of Carson Avenue
and at the Principal Place of Beginning
of
the
premises
herein
described;
Thence Westerly along the curved
northerly right-of-way of Carson
Avenue deflecting to the left, an arc
of 188.85 feet, said curve having a
radius of 457.12 feet and a chord
that bears North 86° 56' 03" West,
187.51 feet to a point;
Thence
along
a
curved
line
deflecting to the left, an arc of
207.10 feet, said curve having a
radius of 750.00 feet and a chord
that bears North 18° 31' 33" West,
206.44 feet to a point;
Thence North 00° 24' 43" West,
260.65 feet to a point;
Thence South 49° 44' 09" East,
357.58 feet to a point on the rightof-way of East 72nd Street (60 feet
wide) as Vacated by Ordinance No.
1094-59;

Thence North 89° 35' 17" East,
30.00 feet to the centerline of vacated East 72nd Street;
Thence South 00° 24' 43" East,
55.00 feet to the northeasterly corner
of land conveyed to the Cuyahoga
Metropolitan
Housing
Authority
(Parcel 2) (PPN 125-13-004) recorded
in Volume 13335, Page 997 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence South 15° 03' 06" West
along the westerly line of lands so
conveyed, 186.93 feet to the northerly right-of-way of Carson Avenue
and the Principal Place of Beginning and containing 2.0121 acres of
land as surveyed and described by
Edward Dudley of the Riverstone
Company in May, 2010, be the same,
more or less but subject to all legal
highways, restrictions, reservations
and easements of record.
Basis of Bearing:
The centerline of Kinsman Road
as North 56° 41' 18" West as shown
on the Dedication Map of Garden
Valley Avenue S.E., Carson Avenue
S.E., Extension of Part Avenue S.E.,
Relocation of East 77th Street and
East 78th Street, Widening of East
73rd Street, East 77th Street and
East 79th Street as recorded in Vol-

1319

25
ume 200, Page 3 and 4 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described
property
to
the
Redeveloper at a price not less than
fair market value as determined by
the Board of Control, taking into
account all restrictions, reversionary
interests and similar encumbrances
placed by the City of Cleveland in
the deed of conveyance.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1049-10.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Economic Development to enter
into an agreement with the Reflections Beauty Salon for the exterior
and interior building renovation
through the use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement
with
the
Reflections
Beauty Salon located at 11506 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio for the
exterior and interior building renovation for the public purpose of promoting economic development and
new job creation in the city of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
9 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $15,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

26

The City Record

approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1050-10.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to change
the name of Fairview Court to Farinacci Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, 1976, the name of Fairview
Court is hereby changed to “Farinacci Court”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1052-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and Directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to the
Union Miles Development Corporation
to affix vertical banners around
Warner Avenue from Webb Terrace
to Connecticut Avenue and East 131st
Street from Angelus Avenue to Southview Avenue, for the period from
August 1, 2010 through August 16,
2010, inclusive publicizing “Ward 2
Community Expo.”
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Director of the Department
of Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to issue a permit to the
Union Miles Development Corporation
to install, maintain and remove vertical banners around Warner Avenue
from Webb Terrace to Connecticut
Avenue and East 131st Street from
Angelus Avenue to Southview Avenue, for the period from August 1,
2010 through August 16, 2010, inclusive. Said banners shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere
with any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner will
be hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial
advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed promptly upon
the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1051-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with the Capuchin
Franciscan Volunteer Corps for the
Cap
Corps
Internship
Program
through the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community development be authorized to enter into an
agreement effective August 14, 2010
with the Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps for the for the Cap Corps
Internship Program for the public
purpose of providing interns to serve
the elderly population that is residing
in the city of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $12,600 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

Ord. No. 1105-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and Economic Development to enter into one or more
amendments to Contract No. 53646
with Otis Associates Limited Partnership to accept a discount pay off
of the NDIF Loan regarding the
acquisition and rehabilitation of the
Bridgeview Apartments into rental
housing.

1320

August 25, 2010
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 91498, passed July 29, 1998, as amended by Ordinance No. 1231-01, passed
August 22, 2001, and Ordinance No.
232-05, passed April 25, 2005, this
Council authorized the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development to enter into a
Neighborhood Development Investment Fund contract with Otis Associates Limited Partnership (“Otis
Associates”) to provide economic
development assistance to renovate
the Bridgeview Apartments, located
at 1300 West 9th Street, into rental
housing; and
Whereas,
Otis
Associates
has
requested the opportunity to
pay
off their outstanding balance at its
net present value using a discount
rate of ten and one-half percent
(10.5%); and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development are authorized
to enter into one or more amendments to Contract No. 53646 with
Otis Associates Limited Partnership
to accept a discount pay off of the
NDIF Loan regarding the acquisiand
rehabilitation
of
the
tion
Bridgeview Apartments into rental
housing.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development are authorized
to accept on behalf of the City, a
$847,985.45 discounted pay off from
Otis Associates, to be paid to the
City, with that amount being equal
to the net present value of the NDIF
loan using a discount rate equal to
ten and one-half percent (10.5%) in
full satisfaction of the loan currently due December 31, 2021, which
loan was originally made to partially finance the acquisition and
rehabilitation of the Bridgeview
Apartments
into
rental
housing.
That the Directors of Community
Development and Economic Development are authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the pay off.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contract amendment or amendments
and other documents necessary to
effectuate this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development are authorized
to release any and all collateral
taken to secure repayment of the
loan and to execute all documents
necessary to release the collateral.
Any release of security instruments
shall be prepared and approved by
the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development are authorized
to deposit the prepayment into Fund
No. 10 SF 502, NDIF Repayment
Fund.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

August 25, 2010
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1053-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone and Mayor Jackson.
An emergency resolution urging
Congress to pass the Uniting American Families Act and supporting
the removal of legal barriers to
immigration by permanent samegender partners.
Whereas, every American is entitled to equal protection under the
law; and
Whereas, the U.S. immigration
system is largely based upon the
principle of family unification; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
celebrates and respects all immigroups
and
all
families,
grant
including those of same-sex gay and
lesbian partners; and
Whereas, Federal law does not
recognize
permanent
currently
same-gender partners for immigration purposes; and
Whereas, this results in thousands
of United States citizens being
forced into exile to be with foreignborn partners, causing unnecessary
hardship, separation from family
members and careers, and loss of
valuable skills and resources for our
country; and
Whereas, it is estimated some
36,000 gay and lesbian American citizens are in same-gender bi-national
relationships and are affected by
lack of rights and protections of
their relationships at the federal
level; and
Whereas, The Uniting American
Families Act (UAFA) was introduced in Congress on February 12,
2009 by Senator Patrick Leahy (DVT)
and
Representative
Jerrod
Nadler (D-NY) to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act and
allow
U.S.
immigration
law
by
adding three words – “or permanent
partner” – wherever the word spouse
appears; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
fully supports the measures of Congress to allow gay and lesbian partners to access immigration benefits
in an equal and fair manner, equivalent to opposite sex partners who
currently enjoy such legal rights;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
Congress to pass the Uniting American Families Act and supporting
the removal of legal barriers to
immigration by permanent samegender partners.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
the Ohio Congressional delegation,
bill sponsors Representative Jerrold
Nadler (D-NY) and Senator Patrick
Leahy (D-VT), The Lesbian Gay
Bisexual Transgender Community
Center of Greater Cleveland, and
Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

The City Record
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1054-10.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Brancatelli, Sweeney, Brady, Cimperman, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed
and Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting Cleveland Housing Court Judge
Raymond
Pianka
in
his
recent
efforts to require negligent property owners to pay victim restitution
to neighbors affected by neglected
properties.
Whereas, neglected, vacant and
abandoned properties often become
a breeding ground for crime and
fires, and require a disproportionate
amount of government maintenance,
from securing properties against
criminal activity to removal of
garbage and rodents to demolition,
all at a cost to taxpayers; and
Whereas, neglected, vacant and
abandoned properties reduce city
tax revenue in three ways: they are
often tax delinquent; their low value
means they generate little in taxes;
and they depress property values
across an entire neighborhood; and
Whereas, the citizens who live in
a neighborhoods with many neglected, vacant and abandoned properties
have
great
difficulty
obtaining
homeowner’s insurance, mortgages
and loans for home improvements;
and
Whereas, neglected, vacant and
abandoned properties degrade and
devalue the quality of life for
remaining residents, isolating and
weakening the neighborhood, and
increasing the likelihood that property values will continue to decline
and further abandonment will set in;
and
Whereas, that a recent study by
CWRU indicates that in the City of
Cleveland properties lose 70% of
their value following foreclosure;
and
Whereas, many owners of neglected, vacant and abandoned properties
routinely defy local law to bring
properties to housing code standards; and
Whereas, Judge Pianka in his
responsibility
as
the
Cleveland
Housing Court Judge is knowledgeable of all the powers of the court
and the full extent of existing law;
and
Whereas, Judge Pianka is rightfully exercising the full extent of
the existing law; and
Whereas, the Court is an essential
element of law enforcement; and
Whereas, existing law recognizes
the rights of property owners who
have economically suffered by the
willful negligence of property owners who defy local housing code
law; and
Whereas, Judge Pianka recognizes
the
application
of
Ohio
Revised Code regarding the ability
of a victim to seek restitution in
criminal cases; and

1321

27
Whereas, Judge Pianka’s latest
efforts to enforce housing codes and
provide redress to those property
owners who have been affected by
the negligence of those who habitually defy housing code requirements
will benefit the residents of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Supporting Cleveland
Housing
Court
Judge
Raymond
Pianka in his recent efforts to
require negligent property owners
to pay victim restitution to neighbors affected by neglected properties.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Judge
Raymond Pianka, Cleveland Housing Court, Frank G. Jackson, Mayor,
City of Cleveland, Robert Triozzi,
Law Director, City of Cleveland, and
James Rokakis, Cuyahoga County
Treasurer.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1118-10.
By Council Members Cimperman
Sweeney and Zone.
An emergency resolution declaring public intent to engage in a public dialogue and series of solutions
to address race relations in our
downtown Cleveland; engage the
Fair Housing Board to hear and
mediate
civil
rights
complaints;
work with U.S. Attorney, Steve Dettlebach to educate downtown establishments regarding patrons’ civil
rights; and resolve to keep our
Downtown Cleveland safe through
fair and consistent application of
the law.
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
declares public intent to engage in
a public dialogue and series of solutions to address the issue of race
relations in our Downtown Cleveland community; and
Whereas, through a series of community meetings the public will
engage in direct, honest, candid, collaborative dialogue with Cleveland
City
Council,
Council
President
Sweeney, Mayor Jackson, the Community Relations Board, Fair Housing Board, Department of Public
Safety,
Downtown
Cleveland
Alliance, NAACP, Cleveland State
University,
Tri-C,
the
Southern
Christian
Leadership
Conference,
and
other
interested
parties
to
achieve understanding and a constructive action plan to improve
race relations in our Downtown; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
requests that Mr. Marinucci, CEO of
Downtown
Cleveland
Alliance,
research
best-practices
in
other
cities to achieve racial and cultural

28
assimilation and celebration in their
downtown entertainment districts;
and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
and interested parties will engage
the City of Cleveland’s Fair Housing Board to hear and mediate complaints of civil rights violations by
Downtown establishments; and
Whereas, the Fair Housing Board
has the responsibility under Codified Ordinance Sections 667.01 and
667.012 to hear complaints of unlawful discriminatory public accommodations
practices,
including
a
refusal by a place of public accommodation to offer goods, services or
facilities to any person because of
membership in a protected class;
and
Whereas, the Fair Housing Board
can serve as an important first step
in resolving complaints of discrimination by exercising its duties to
investigate complaints, engage in a
conciliation process with the parties,
hold hearings, issue fact finding
decisions, and dismiss complaints or
assess compensatory damages and
civil penalties as appropriate; and
Whereas, we will all work to
assure that funds are in place to do
this important work; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
requests that entertainment establishments in Downtown Cleveland
discuss and report how they will
post their establishment rules in
writing in their lobbies for all
patrons to see; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
and all interested parties will work
with U.S. Attorney, Steve Dettlebach
in his efforts to educate downtown
establishments regarding patrons’
civil rights and discrimination laws;
and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
and all interested parties resolve to
keep our Downtown Cleveland safe
through fair and consistent application of the law; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares public intent to engage in
a public dialogue and series of solutions to address race relations in our
downtown Cleveland; engage the
Fair Housing Board to hear and
mediate
civil
rights
complaints;
work with U.S. Attorney, Steve Dettlebach to educate downtown establishments regarding patrons’ civil
rights; and resolve to keep our
Downtown Cleveland safe through
fair and consistent application of
the law.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
Mayor
Jackson,
the
Community
Relations
Board,
Fair
Housing
Board, Department of Public Safety,
Downtown
Cleveland
Alliance,
NAACP, Stanley Miller, Cleveland
State
University
President
Ron
Berkman, Tri-C President Dr. Jerry
Sue Thornton, the Southern Christian
Leadership
Conference,
and
Mansfield Frasier.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1057-10.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 7025 Fleet Avenue
and repealing Resolution No. 525-10,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 7025
Fleet Avenue by Resolution No. 52510 adopted by the Council on April
19, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of liquor license and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Fleet Gas
Mart, Inc., 6025 Fleet Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
2772868 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 52510, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1058-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit at 4002 Jennings
Road, 1st floor, and repealing Resolution No. 848-10, objecting to said
transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
Wards Tavern, LLC, 4002 Jennings
Road, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent No. 9402086, by
Resolution No. 848-10 adopted by the
Council on June 7, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2,
C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to
Mahaden Trading Co., DBA Boarding House Deli & Carryout, 11313
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio

1322

August 25, 2010
44106, Permanent Number 5433601 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 170-06, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1059-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 1104 Rowley Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 6985049 owned by
Rowley Inn, 1104 Rowley Avenue,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

August 25, 2010
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1060-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 526
Superior Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 7655380
owned by SWB Bar One, LLC, 526
Superior Avenue, 1st floor, basement
and patio, Suite #101, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1061-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 75
Public Square, Suite B-100.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 9148958
owned by Underground Entertainment, Inc., DBA Underground, 75
Public Square, Suite B-100, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

1323

29
Res. No. 1062-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of Liquor License
of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 1917 West 25th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Clifton W. 117th, LLC, DBA City
Place & Patio, 11636 Clifton Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 1557204 to Ala Turka,
Inc., DBA Ala Turka, 1917 West 25th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 0093196; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Clifton W. 117th, LLC, DBA City
Place & Patio, 11636 Clifton Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 1557204 to Ala Turka,
Inc., DBA Ala Turka, 1917 West 25th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number
0093196,
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

30
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1063-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of Liquor License
of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
7002 Cedar Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from David Lee
Jackson, Jr., DBA Pat’s Delicatessan, 5204 St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor
front, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 4197482 to Cedarcrest
Foods, Inc., DBA Cedar Crest Foods,
7002 Cedar Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 1350137;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from David Lee Jackson, Jr., DBA Pat’s Delicatessan,
5204 St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor front,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 4197482 to Cedarcrest Foods,
Inc., DBA Cedar Crest Foods, 7002
Cedar
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 1350137 ,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1064-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3194 West 25th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
91163200005 owned by 2109 Tate,
Inc., DBA Teri O’s Lounge, 3194
West 25th Street, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

1324

August 25, 2010
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1065-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 3194 West
25th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit from Muggs, Inc., 3194 West
25th Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 6213011 to 2109 Tate, Inc.,
DBA Teri O’s Lounge, 3194 West
25th Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 91163200005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Muggs, Inc., 3194 West
25th Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 6213011 to 2109 Tate, Inc.,
DBA Teri O’s Lounge, 3194 West
25th Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 91163200005; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Sec-

August 25, 2010
tion 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1066-10.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
12301-03 Imperial Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from Hiam A.
Inc.,
12301-03
Imperial
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 3820139 to Sophie T. Inc.,
DBA Imperial Deli & Beverage,
12301-03 Imperial Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
9120790; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Hiam A. Inc.,
12301-03 Imperial Avenue, Cleveland,
44120,
Permanent
Number
Ohio
3820139 to Sophie T. Inc., DBA Imperial Deli & Beverage, 12301-03 Imperial Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
Permanent
Number
9120790;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1067-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit at 16101
Arcade Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 7931681 owned by
Walter Scott, DBA Arcade Bar, 16101
Arcade
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44110, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

1325

31
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1068-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 18414-16 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2296200 owned by DPG
Lounge, LLC, DBA The Dog Pound,
18414-16 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44110, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

32
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1069-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2, C2X and D6
Liquor Permit at 15637 St. Clair
Avenue, and repealing Resolution
No. 950-10, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2,
C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to 15637
St. Clair Avenue by Resolution No.
950-10 adopted by the Council on
July 14, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
between
Applicant Pruthvash Patel, President of Sujata, Inc., and Councilmember Michael D. Polensek; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X
and D6 Liquor Permit to Sujata, Inc.,
DBA Stop-n-Save Food Mart, 15637
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, Permanent Number 8681392 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 950-10, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1070-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 3249 East 143rd Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

The City Record
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7207558 owned by Rashiqa, Inc.,
DBA East 143rd Food Market, 3249
East 143rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1071-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 14731
Miles Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

1326

August 25, 2010
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8774196
owned by TT & B, Inc., DBA Atmosphere Bar & Grill, 14731 Miles
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1072-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 4563 Warner Road, and
repealing
Resolution
No.
570-10,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Padmavati
Stores, Inc., DBA Cleveland Convenience Store, 4563 Warner Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
No. 6620004, by Resolution No. 570-10
adopted by the Council on April 26,
2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Padmavati
Stores, Inc., DBA Convenience Store,
4563 Warner Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent No. 6620004, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 570-10, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Coun-

August 25, 2010
cil consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1079-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 2045
East 21st Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2293436
owned by Downunder Entertainment, LLC, DBA Peabody’s Entertainment, 2045 East 21st Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

The City Record
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1080-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 1628-38 Fall Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 5416875 owned by Frank
D. Maenza, DBA Diamonds Men’s
Club, 1628-38 Fall Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

1327

33
Res. No. 1081-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 812
Huron Road, E.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 0766768
owned by Blues To You, Inc., DBA
Wilberts, 812 Huron Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44115 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1082-10.
By Council Member Cimperman
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 21
Prospect Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

34
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2600072
owned by FFB Cleveland, LLC, DBA
Fat Fish Blue, 21 Prospect Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1083-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 618
Prospect Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor per-

The City Record
mit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 9271908
owned by View Cleveland, LLC, 618
Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1084-10.
By Council Member Cimperman
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor
Permit
at
2710
Lorain
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation

1328

August 25, 2010
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9116883 owned by 2710,
Inc., DBA Touch Supper Club, 2710
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44113 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1085-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 2233 West 3rd Street, 1st
floor and patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renew-

August 25, 2010
al of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
owned
by
Patricia
A.
3587876
Hanych, 2233 West 3rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1086-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 1392 West 6th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 5829842 owned by Mercury Lounge, LLC, 1392 West 6th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to

The City Record
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1087-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1616
West 25th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6548374
owned by 1616 Arabic Restaurant,
Inc., DBA Kan Zaman, 1616 West
25th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and

1329

35
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1088-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1 and D2 and to the Liquor
Agency Contract located at 7401-05
Central Avenue and basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1 and
D2 from GDMG & J Corporation,
DBA Tom’s Market & Deli, 7401-05
Central
Avenue
and
basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 2977262 to Gurdev, Inc., DBA
Deeps State Liquor & Market, 740105 Central Avenue and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 3452641 and to the application of a Liquor Agency Contract,
Permit Number 3452641; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1 and D2
from GDMG & J Corporation, DBA

36
Tom’s Market & Deli, 7401-05 Central
Avenue and basement, Cleveland,
44104,
Permanent
Number
Ohio
2977262 to Gurdev, Inc., DBA Deeps
State Liquor & Market, 7401-05 Central Avenue and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
3452641, and to the application of a
Agency
Contract,
Permit
Liquor
Number 3452641 ; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1089-10.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 5100
Pearl Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor
Permit,
Permit
No.
00094580005 owned by A & E Investments Co., DBA Its Station, 5100
Pearl Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44129
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to

The City Record
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1090-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 9102 Aetna Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6061800 owned by Tyson Mitchell,
9102 Aetna Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44102 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

1330

August 25, 2010
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1091-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
at
12401
Corlett
Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0160894 owned by Amana
My Way Deli, Inc., DBA Corlett Deli,
12401 Corlett Avenue, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

August 25, 2010
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1092-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
at
10808
Dove
Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6503136 owned by Ocean,
Inc., 10808 Dove Avenue, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1093-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3661 East 93rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6424592 owned by 93
Aetna, Inc., 3661 East 93rd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1094-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 3831 East 93rd Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal

1331

37
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6379708 owned by New Star Market,
Ltd., 3831 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1095-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3643 East 116th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or

38
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7184705 owned by Rana
Guraan, Inc., DBA Nadia’s, 3643 East
116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1096-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3705 East 116th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor per-

The City Record
mits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3675668 owned by Havi 2,
LLC, DBA Big Bite, 3705 East 116th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1097-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 4096-98 East 131st
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0118684 owned by Aliah
Josephine, Inc., DBA Chillies, 409698 East 131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio

1332

August 25, 2010
44105 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1098-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3744 East 144th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 5202187 owned by Lilly
Aziza, Inc., DBA One Stop Market,
3744 East 144th Street, 1st floor only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two

August 25, 2010
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1099-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3904 Martin Luther
King, Jr. Boulevard, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4034257-0005 owned by
Pamela Hubbard, DBA McClain’s
Market II, 3904 Martin Luther King
Jr. Boulevard, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1100-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 9305 Miles Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6416088 owned by NinetyThree Miles, Inc., DBA Convenience
Plus Food Mart, 9305 Miles Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force

1333

39
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1101-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 9911 Miles Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4290858 owned by Jiryes Unlimited,
Inc., DBA Neighborhood Market,
9911 Miles Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

40
Res. No. 1102-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 11334 Miles Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 5951324 owned by Miles
Mini Mart, Inc., 11334 Miles Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1103-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D4 Liquor
Permit at 4595 Turney Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renew-

The City Record
al of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D4 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6530213 owned by Old Timers Club
of Garfield Heights, Inc., 4595 Turney Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1104-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4563 Warner Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other

1334

August 25, 2010
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0498906 owned by Basimas Market, Inc., 4563 Warner Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1106-10.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3850 East 65th
Street, 1st floor only.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration

August 25, 2010
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2760315 owned by Five
Star Robin, Inc., DBA Mike’s Food
Mart, 3850 East 65th Street, 1st floor
only, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1107-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3314
Broadview Road, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 6483695 owned by
N Yuk Yuks Bar & Grill, Inc., DBA
N Yuk N Yuk, 3314 Broadview Road,

The City Record
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1108-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of C1 Liquor Permit at 2101 Denison Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7363142 owned by Ridas Deli, Inc.,
2101 Denison Avenue, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the

1335

41
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1109-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1701
East 12th Street, Suite R135 and 1st
floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6549231
owned by 1701 East 12th LLC, DBA
Scorchers, 1701 East 12th Street,
Suite R135 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44114 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

42
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1110-10.
By Council Member Cimperman
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 1740 East 17th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6548846 owned by 1740
East Seventeenth Street, LLC, DBA
Moe’s Bar, 1740 East 17th Street, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44114 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1111-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 2325 Elm Street,
Bar 3 and Bar 4.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit Nos. 5870816, 58708160003 and
58708160004 owned by Metropolis
Night Club, Inc., 2325 Elm Street,
Bar 3 and Bar 4, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

1336

August 25, 2010
Res. No. 1112-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1204
Old River Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit Nos. 5337947,
53379470003 and 53379470004 owned
by Lucic Enterprises, Inc., DBA
Lucics, 1204 Old River Road, Mezzanine and patios, Cleveland, Ohio
44113 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1113-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D1, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 2030-32 West
25th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

August 25, 2010
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit, Permit No. 3375827 owned by
Gridlock Co., DBA Club Argos, 203032 West 25th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44113 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1114-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 2132 West
25th Street, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor per-

The City Record
mit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 9956778 owned by
ZMDS
Entertainment,
Inc.,
DBA
Envy Lounge, 2132 West 25th Street,
1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44113 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1115-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 3232
Lakeside Avenue and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure provid-

1337

43
ing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2779680
owned
by
Flextron
LLC,
DBA
Gotcha Inn, 3232 Lakeside Avenue
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1116-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 18414-16 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

44
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2296200 owned by DPG
LLC,
18414-16
St.
Clair
Lounge,
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1117-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor
Permit
at
5910
Detroit
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 91255550005 owned by
Two N, Inc., DBA Convenient Food
Mart #3112, 5910 Detroit Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1119-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3801-03
Denison Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4817939 owned by
Kovach-Ford,
Inc.,
DBA
Pinky’s
Café, 3801-03 Denison Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Direc-

1338

August 25, 2010
tor’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1120-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5J and D6
Liquor Permit at 15617 Waterloo
Road, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5J and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3592954 owned by Harbor
Pub LLC, DBA Harbor Pub, 15617
Waterloo Road, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

August 25, 2010
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1121-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3129 West 25th Street, 1st
floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2251417 owned by Doned, Inc., DBA
Peek A Boo Club, 3129 West 25th
Street,
1st
floor
and
basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1122-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of aD2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3180-84
West 25th Street, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8412882 owned by
Speakeasy Management, Inc., 3180-84
West 25th Street, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1123-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2850 West 25th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

1339

45
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4895628 owned by Krupa
Two, Inc., DBA I-90 Citgo Road
Mart, 2850 West 25th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1124-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 5351-53
Dolloff Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operat-

46
ed his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 9862110 owned by
Your Place & Mine, LLC, DBA Your
Place & Mine, 5351-53 Dolloff Road,
P.O. Box 27544, Cleveland, Ohio
44127 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1178-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 16826 Lakeshore Boulevard.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation

The City Record
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal
of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4979600 owned by Lake Shore Cocktails, LLC, 16826 Lakeshore Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1179-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4360 Lee Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, to Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may
object to the renewal of a permit
based upon legal grounds as set
forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renew-

1340

August 25, 2010
al of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 5088723 owned by Lee
Miles Service, Inc., DBA Lee Miles
Citgo, 4360 Lee Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44128 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 547-10.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Veterans Development, LLC. to encroach into the public right-of-way of East 105th Street
by installing, using, and maintaining federally-required security bollards and a pedestrian bridge.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 550-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
various improvements to Cleveland
Brown’s Stadium, including replacing an expansion joint and making
various concrete and steel repairs;
and authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

August 25, 2010
Ord. No. 652-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the Board of Cuyahoga County Commissioners for the replacement of
Cedar Road bridge No. 229 over
Doan Brook; authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into
any relative agreements; and to
apply for and accept an allocation
of County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Funds for the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 697-10.
By Council Members Miller, Mitchell
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 551.111 and 551.99 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by various
sections,
relating
to
prohibiting
excessively large set outs of waste
for collection and penalties, and to
supplement the Codified Ordinances
by enacting new Section 551.991,
relating to the establishment of a
civil enforcement program for waste
disposal infractions and to authorize
the issuance of tickets to the responsible
parties,
and
new
Section
551.041, relating to recycling.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 698-10.
By Council Members Keane, Miller,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Fairview Hospital
to encroach into the public right-ofway beneath Lorain Avenue west of
West 179th Street by installing,
using, and maintaining 2 communication duct banks, each containing
1 set of 6-4 inch diameter PVC bundles located between the Moll Cancer Center and Fairview Hospital’s
proposed new ED/ICU building.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 708-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 3105.25, 3105.26, and 3105.28
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by various ordinances, relating to permit,
inspection, certificate, plan examination, and carnival and festival fee
schedules, for the Department of
Building and Housing.
Approved by Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Com-

The City Record
munity and Economic Development,
Legislation, Finance, when amended
as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
3105.28(c), line 1, strike “minimum”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 806-10.
By Council Members Keane, Mitchell
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances by
enacting new Section 571.90 relating
to banner towing operations; fee.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 835-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Mitchell,
Zone,
Pruitt,
Sweeney,
Brady and Polensek (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3103.091 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1112-A-07,
passed June 2, 2008, relating to utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe
structures.
Approved by Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Legislation, Finance, when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
3103.091(b), line 2, strike “five (5)
business” and insert “ten (10) calendar”.
2. In Section 1, at amended Section
3103.091(c), line 1, strike “the business day” and insert “two business
days”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 867-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of office supplies, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period of two
years with two one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance, when amended
as follows:
1. In the title, line 3, after “office
supplies,”
insert
“furniture,
and
equipment”; and strike line 6 in its
entirety and insert “the first of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.”.
2. In Section 1, line 3 after “office
supplies,”
insert
“furniture,
and
equipment”; in line 5, strike “, exercisable by the Director of Finance,”;
and in line 7, after “government.”

1341

47
insert “The first of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative
authority.
If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second
of the one-year options to renew
may be exercisable at the option of
the Director of Finance, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 868-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of hand tools
and hand-held power tools, for the
various divisions of City government, for a period of two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 869-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of rigging services, and labor, materials, and services needed to maintain, repair, or
refurbish material handling equipment, including training if needed;
and authorizing the rental of material handling equipment, cranes, and
other heavy equipment, including
training if needed, for the Divisions
of Water, Cleveland Public Power,
and Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 870-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of safety equipment, for the
Divisions of Water, Cleveland Public Power and Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities,
for a period of two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 871-10
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with High Line Corporation dba
Casnet for professional services nec-

48
essary to maintain Onbase hardware, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 872-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. 68519 with Tyco Simplex-Grinnell to provide for labor
and materials necessary to maintain, repair, and expand the computerized facility management system, and labor if necessary, for the
Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 873-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services needed for
managing and maintaining buildings under the control of the Department of Community Development for
a period of one year.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 875-10.
By Council Members Dow, Miller,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to the Rainey Institute to encroach into the public
right-of-way of East 55th Street by
installing, using, and maintaining
an entry marquee with masonry
piers.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 877-10.
By Council Members Keane, Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to The City Mission
to encroach into the public right-ofway above Puritas Avenue with
three banners to be attached to utility poles (by separate permission of
the poles’ owners).
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 878-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate temporary easements and
property located on the west side of
East 93rd Street between Heath and
St. Catherine Avenues for the public
purpose of widening a public road
in connection with extending Bessemer Road.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 881-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Miller and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate an overhead permanent utility easement at 6938 Kinsman Road
for the public purpose of relocating
power poles and lines needed to
rehabilitate portions of Woodland
Avenue and Kinsman Road.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 882-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Mitchell, Miller and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate property for the public purpose of widening a public road in
connection with extending Bessemer
Avenue, located near the southwest
corner of East 88th Street and Union
Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 883-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Mitchell, Miller and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate easements for the public purpose of widening a public road in
connection with extending Bessemer
Avenue, located near the southwest
corner of East 88th Street and Bessemer Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 884-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland, Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).

1342

August 25, 2010
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 514.01 to 514.11 and
514.99 relating to the issuance of
temporary public right-of-way occupancy permits for streetscape amenities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Legislation, Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at new Section
514.01, division (e), line 2, delete
“signage,”; and reletter division
“(r)” to “(f)”.
2. In Section 1, at new Section
514.04, strike division (a) in its
entirety and insert “(a) An application for a permit shall be accompanied by a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus $10.00 for each
individual amenity for which a
permit is desired.”.
3. In Section 1, at new Section
514.04(b), strike lines 5 and 6 in
their entirety and insert “Public
Service shall issue a permit under
this Chapter.”.
4. In Section 1, at new Section
514.04(d), line 1, strike “a twelve
month period.” and insert “not
more than a twelve month period.
No permit shall extend beyond
March 31st of any year.”; and in
line 4, strike “one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each” and insert “one
hundred
fifty
dollars
($150.00),
plus $10.00 for each individual”.
5. In Section 1, at new Section
beginning
in
line
2,
514.07(c),
strike “and shall provide a suitable
container for the placement of
paper, wrappers, and other similar
items used within the permitted
area”.
6. In Section 1, at new Section
514.08(b), lines 3 and 4, strike “a
required health license has been
suspended or revoked or that”
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 890-10.
Council Members Mitchell, Miller,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Shaker Square
Area Development Corporation to
encroach into the public right-ofway at the southwest corner of
Larchmere Boulevard and East 121st
Street by installing, using, and
maintaining a neighborhood entry
sign, a planter, and an underground
power conduit.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 891-10.
By Council Members Miller and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of carts need-

August 25, 2010
ed to expand the Automated Waste
Collection and Curbside Recycling
Program, for the Division of Waste
Collection and Disposal, Department
of Public Service, for a period of one
year.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance, when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, at the end, strike
the period and insert “, with three
one-year options to renew, the second of which is exercisable through
additional legislative authority.”.
2. In Section 1, line 3, after “for a
one year period” insert “with three
one-year options to renew,”; and in
line 7, after “Service.” insert “The
first of the one-year options to
renew may be exercised by the
Director of Public Service, without
the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council. The second of the one-year options to renew
may not be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such
additional
legislative
authority
is
granted and the second of the oneyear options to renew is exercised,
then the third of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Public Service, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 610-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (By
Request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Perry Court N.E. (12 feet wide) extending from the easterly right of
way line of East 25th Street (66 feet
wide) to the westerly right of way
line of East 26th Street (66 feet wide).
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 829-10.
By Mayor Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of LED streetlights, LED
fluorescent tube replacements, LED
bulbs, and LED traffic lights as
specified for a term of up to 10
years for the various departments of
City government.
Read third time in full. Passed.
Yeas 12. Nays 7.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane,
Kelley,
Miller,
Mitchell,
Pruitt and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cummins, J.
Johnson, Polensek, Reed and Westbrook.

The City Record
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
9:00 p.m. to meet on Monday, September 13, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the
Council Chambers.

49
contractors
by
Public
Financial
Management, Inc. is approved:
RNR Consulting Inc.
CSB/MBE — $45,000 — 30% (Revised)
Guy Gadomski
Other — $16,800 — 0% — CSB/MBE
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

August 18, 2010
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, August 18,
2010, at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Others: James Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Natoya Walker, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 344-10.
By Director Dumas.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that under Ordinance No. 1658-09,
passed November 30, 2009 by the
Council of the City of Cleveland, the
firm of Public Financial Management, Inc. is selected upon the nomination of the Director of Finance
from a list of qualified firms available for such employment and determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Finance as
the
firm
of
consultants
to
be
employed by contract for the purpose of reviewing applicable cost
recovery and cost of service policies,
and conducting a comprehensive
Fee Study for the City.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into a written contract with
Public Financial Management, Inc.
based upon its proposal dated July
09, 2010, as amended on August 11,
2010, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law and
shall include such additional provisions as he deems necessary to benefit and protect the public. The total
compensation to the consultant for
all services under the contract shall
not exceed $150,000.
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following sub-

1343

Resolution No. 345-10.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance 485-96 passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
May 6, 1996, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 359-08, adopted on
July 23, 2008, the City of Cleveland
entered into City Contract No. 68276
with Varian, Inc. for the purchase
of laboratory equipment, testing and
analytical services, gas chromatograph and appurtenances and a
instrument
service
post-warranty
plan for certain of the equipment for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, Varian, Inc. was purchased by Agilent Technologies, Inc.
which in turn sold various of the
original Varian businesses to Bruker Daltonics Inc., including the businesses covered by City Contract No.
68276; and
Whereas, by its letter dated May
26, 2010, Agilent Technologies, Inc.
requested the City’s consent to its
assignment of any and all continuing duties and obligations to the
City under City Contract No. 68276
acquired by Bruker Daltonics Inc.,
effective as of the date this resolution is adopted; and
Whereas, Bruker Daltonics Inc.
proposes to undertake all duties and
obligations of Agilent Technologies,
Inc. under City Contract No. 68276
and has represented that assignment shall not waive any obligations due the City from Varian, Inc.
and Agilent Technologies, Inc. or
the City’s rights; now, therefore,
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that this Board authorizes the Director of Public Utilities to consent to
the assignment of City Contract No.
68276 from Varian, Inc. and Agilent
Technologies, Inc. to Bruker Daltonics Inc., effective on the adoption
date of this resolution.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to execute all documents and
do all things necessary to implement the consent to the assignment
of City Contract No. 68276 authorized above. A copy of the consent
to assignment of City Contract No.
68276 shall be filed with the original of the contract in the custody of
the Commissioner of Accounts.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 346-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that

50
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1036-07, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on August 8, 2007,
BancTec, Inc. is selected from a list
of firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities as the firm to be
employed by contract to provide professional
services
necessary
to
implement the BancTec IntelliScan
XDS payment processing hardware,
software and training for the Division of Utilities Fiscal Control,
Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
BancTec, Inc. based upon its prodated
November
19,
2009,
posal
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
hardware, software and professional
services described in the proposal
for an aggregate fee of $402,443.00,
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 347-10.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 649-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 8, 2009, and Board of Control
Resolutions
No.
581-09,
adopted
December 30, 2009, No. 42-10, adopted February 10, 2010, and No. 218-10,
adopted June 2, 2010, the Director of
Public Utilities, entered into City
Contract No. CT-2002-PI2010*8 with
Shook, Inc. Northern Division for the
public improvement of the Morgan
Chemical Facility Project No. 119 in
the amount of $17,521,405.00, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities; and
Whereas, by its May 13, 2010 letter, Shook, Inc. Northern Division
requested the City’s consent to
increase the participation of Coleman
Spohn
Corporation
from
$359,000.00 to $1,100,000.00; and
Whereas,
the
Director
of
the
Office of Equal Opportunity has certified Underwater Marine Contractors, previously approved as a NonCSB subcontractor under Resolution
No. 218-10, as a Cleveland Area
Small Business; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolutions No. 42-10, adopted February 10, 2010, and No. 218-10, adopted June 2, 2010, under authority of
Ordinance No. 649-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 8, 2009, approving Shook, Inc.
Northern Division for the public
improvement of the Morgan Chemical Facility Project No. 119, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, are respectively
amended by increasing the participation of Coleman Spohn Corporation
(MBE)
from
$359,000.00
(2.049%) to $1,100,000.00 (6.278%),
and by changing the status of
Underwater
Marine
Contractors
from Non-CSB to CSB.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following additional subcontractor by Shook, Inc. Northern Division

The City Record
for
the
above-mentioned
improvement is approved:

August 25, 2010
public

Work
Percentage

Sub-contractor

RVI Environmental, Inc. $141,192.19
0.806%
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 348-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No.
297-10, adopted July 21, 2010, under
authority of Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, approving Jack Doheny
Supplies Ohio, Inc. for an estimated
quantity of catch basin cleaning
repair
(Scavenger
Vac)
truck
(Group 2, Items 1-4) for the Department of Public Utilities, Division of
Water Pollution Control, is amended
by changing “for a period of one
year starting upon the execution of
the contract” to “for a period of two
years starting upon the execution of
the contract”, where appearing.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 297-10 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Rush,
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 349-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No.
299-10, adopted July 21, 2010, under
authority of Section 181.101 of the
codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, approving Best Equipment Co. for an estimated quantity
of catch basin cleaning truck repair
(Vac-All) (Group 1, Items 1-4) for
the Department of Public Utilities,
Division of Water Pollution Control,
is amended by changing “for a period of one year starting upon the
execution of the contract” to “for a
period of two years starting upon
the
execution
of
the
contract”,
where appearing.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 299-10 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 350-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following

1344

subcontractor by Brown and Caldwell Ohio, LLC under Contract No.
67754 for Design Engineering Services for the Baldwin Residuals and
Fairmount Reservoir Project, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, is approved:
Subcontractor

Work
Percentage

Solar Testing Laboratories,
Inc. (CSB)
$14,000.00
0.632%
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 351-10.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Industrial Valves and Universal Machine & Valve Company,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of
various types of valves, actuators
and appurtenances and labor and
materials to maintain and repair
various types of valves, actuators
and appurtenances, Option 2, items
2 and 3, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of execution of the contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods or services, received
on May 26, 2010 under the authority
of Ordinance No. 696-09, passed June
8, 2009, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$462,920.00 (1%, Net 15), is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or
services,
which
contract
shall provide for an initial order, the
cost of which shall be certified to
the contract in a sum not less than
$23,146.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 352-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Terrace Construction
Company,
Inc.
for
the
public
improvement of the 2010 Cleveland
Water Main Replacement for East
22nd Street, East 113th Street and
Everett Court-Phase 2, including a
$48,428.16 contingency allowance, all
items, for the Division of Water,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received on May 19, 2010, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 1541-09,
passed December 7, 2009, upon a
unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of $532,709.73,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director

The City Record

August 25, 2010
of Public Utilities is authorized to
enter
into
a
contract
for
the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction Company, Inc. for
the above-mentioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

The Vallejo Company,
Inc. (CSB/MBE)

$81,600.00
15.318%

Rockport Construction &
Materials, Inc. (CSB/FBE)
$78,400.00
14.717%
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 353-10.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by URS Corporation Ohio, Inc., under City Contract No.
PS2010000000140 to provide professional services necessary to provide
construction
management
and
administration services, including
but not limited to, construction
administration, estimation, scheduling, testing and document control
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, authorized by Ordinance No. 185-07, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on March 12, 2007, and Board
of Control Resolution No. 99-10,
adopted March 10, 2010, is approved.
Subcontractor

Westlake Reed
Leskosky

DBE Percentage
Amount

4.77% Non-DBE
$41,500.00

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 354-10.
By Director Flask.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that Board of Control Resolution No.
259-10, adopted June 23, 2010, affirming and approving the bid of Science
Diving and Environment Company
as lowest and best for Sonar Equipment, is rescinded.
Be it further resolved, that all
bids received on April 7, 2010 for
Sonar Equipment for the Division of
Fire, Department of Public Safety,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
639-08, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 2, 2008,
are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim

Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 355-10.
By Director Flask.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1876-06, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on March 12,
2007, the City of Cleveland, through
the
Director
of
Public
Safety,
entered into an agreement with
Intellitech Corporation, City Contract No. 67684, for a period of twenty two months, for the purchase of
IMACS Jail Management System
software and services maintenance
and technical support services for
the IMACS Jail Management System,
for the Division of Corrections,
Department of Public Safety, and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with the
software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain the software, including but
not limited to, maintenance, repair,
upgrade, enhancements, and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
Intellitech Corporation, to obtain the
professional maintenance and technical support services necessary to
maintain the IMACS JAIL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM software for
one year starting November 1, 2009,
now; therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under division (e) of Section 181.102
C.O., the compensation to be paid for
maintenance and technical support
services to be performed under the
agreement with Intellitech Corporation, is fixed at an amount not
exceeding $82,000.00.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 356-10.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Fire Force Inc., for an estimated
quantity of MSA Self Contained
Breathing, item 1 and item 2, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
June 18, 2010, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 639-08, passed by
Cleveland City Council on June 2,
2008, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$113,000.00, is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or
services,
which
contract
shall provide for an initial order, the
cost of which shall be certified to
the contract in an amount not less
than $113,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.

1345

51
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 357-10.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Dicar Corporation, for an estimated quantity of Personal Protective Equipment for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety,
for the period of one (1) year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on June 18, 2010,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
639-08, passed by Cleveland City
Council on June 2, 2008, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $75,750.00, is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Safety is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost of
which shall be certified to the contract in an amount not less than
$75,750.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Rush,
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 358-10.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Precision Engineering & Contracting, Inc. (CSB/MBE),
for the public improvement of Cudell
Recreation Center Master Plan Phase One, for Base Bid Items 1 - 84
and Add Alternate Items 1 AA - 11
AA including the 5% contingency
for the Division of Research, Planning & Development, Department of
Parks,
Recreation
&
Properties,
received on June 23, 2010, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 451-08,
passed on June 9, 2008, upon a unit
basis for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $725,949.53, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director
of Department of Parks, Recreation
& Properties is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Precision Engineering & Contracting,
Inc. (CSB/MBE) for the aforementioned
public
improvement
is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Cunningham Paving (CSB)
$89,589.00
12.341%

The City Record

52
Designor Pools (other)

$70,000.00
9.642%

White Water (other)

$68,843.00
9.483%

RMH Concrete (other)

$ 54,000.00
7.438%

Tech Ready Mix (CSB/MBE)
$42,828.00
5.900%
Down to Earth Landscaping
$28,024.00
(CSB/FBE)
3.860%
DDC+, Inc. (CSB/MBE)

$15,900.00
2.190%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 359-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 106-03-009, 106-03026 and 106-03-027, located at Addison Road and Wade Park Avenue
under the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 411-10
passed May 10, 2010, authorized the
sale of the parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Eliza Bryant Village
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcels for green
space; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
411-10 passed May 10, 2010, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Eliza Bryant Village for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel Nos. 106-03-009,
106-03-026
and
106-03-027,
as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcels for uses
according to the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 360-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and

Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 118-24-124, located
at 2228 East 73rd Street under the
Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 928-10
passed July 14, 2010, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop the
parcel for Kaboom Play Space; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
928-10 passed July 14, 2010, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Burten, Bell, Carr
Development Corporation for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 118-24-124, as described in
the Ordinance according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 361-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 129-26-006, located
at East 116th Street under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 413-10
passed May 10, 2010, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Louis Golphin has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
413-10 passed May 10, 2010, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Louis Golphin for
the sale and development of Permanent
Parcel
No.
129-26-006,
as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$560.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim

1346

August 25, 2010
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 362-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land ReutiProgram
(“Program”)
lization
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 119-34-057 located at East 90th
Street in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Kelvin Taylor, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Kelvin Taylor for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 119-34-057 located at
East 90th Street, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 363-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 104-25-035 located at East 45th
and Payne Avenue in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commis-

The City Record

August 25, 2010
sioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas,
Svet
Partners,
LLC,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for green space;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Svet Partners,
LLC for the sale and development of
Parcel
No,
104-25-035
Permanent
located at East 45th and Payne
Avenue, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$8,500.00, which amount is determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 364-10.
By Director Nichols.
Whereas, Resolution No. 119-09,
adopted by this Board of Control on
April 8, 2009, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 198-09, passed by
Cleveland City Council on March 30,
2009, by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, authorized the Mayor to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
LCA6700 Euclid LLC (“Grantee”) for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcels Nos. 118-13-015, 118-13019, 118-13-020, 118-13-021, 118-13-024,
and 118-13-025 (the “Property”), as
described in Ordinance No. 198-09,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such a manner as best
carries out the intent of the program; and
Whereas, under the Official Quitclaim Deed terms, Grantee may not
transfer ownership of the Property
before completion of certain development
improvements
required
under the official deed without written consent of the City’s Board of
Control; and
Whereas, Grantee has not completed the development improvements required under the Deed; and
Whereas, by its July 28, 2010 letter,
LCA6700
Euclid,
LLC
has
requested the consent of the City
under the Quitclaim Deed to transfer ownership of the Property to

53

Dunham Square Land, LLC or its
designee; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland consents to the transfer and conveyance
of ownership of Permanent Parcels
Nos. 118-13-015, 118-13-019, 118-13-020,
118-13-021, 118-13-024, and 118-13-025
from LCA6700 Euclid LLC to Dunham
Square
Land,
LLC
or
its
designee.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Community Development
is authorized to execute all documents and do all things necessary
to affect the City’s consent to transfer ownership of the Property to
Dunham Square Land, LLC or its
designee granted above.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Smith, Acting Directors
Butler,
Palinkas,
Directors
Cox,
Rush,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Interim
Director Mahoney and Acting Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Wasik and Acting Director West.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2010
8/27/2010 — 9/2/2010

53

EE

Disease Surveillance
Specialist
(Open)

54

EE

Medical Billing
Reimbursement
Specialist
(Open)

55

EE

Medical Coder and
Billing Analyst
(Open)

56

EE

Supervisor of
Administrative
Services
(Non-Comp)

57

WR

Water System
Construction
Promotion Inspector
(Prom)
Supervisor

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.

Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.
51

52

EE

EE

Exam
Type

Assistant Contract
Compliance Officer
(Open)
Contract Compliance
Officer
(Open)

1347

Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

The City Record

54

August 25, 2010

COMPLI-

be determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2,
2010.

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:

THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 51
ASSISTANT CONTRACT
ANCE OFFICER (OPEN)

SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $20,092.80 - $55,191.48 per
year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE
CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 27, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 2, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2,
2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION:
Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM
THE
ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, provides assistance with the contract compliance
process. Records contract awards
related to OEO programs. Reviews
and logs in certification applications. Maintains file of certified
Minority
and
Female
Business
Enterprises. Provides OEO program
information to businesses and other
City departments. Evaluates contracts for compliance with Affirmative Action requirements. Collects
information
concerning
certified
business participation and affirmative action from bid openings. Attends pre-bid and pre-award meetings. Interviews business clients applying for certification as bona fide
minority and female business enterprises. Monitors contractors to ensure continued contract compliance.
Performs general clerical duties.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may

A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree from
an accredited four year college or
university is required. Experience in
governmental, and ideally municipal
regulatory compliance is preferred.
Experience
in
the
construction
industry is preferred. (Substitution:
Two years of full time paid experience in governmental regulatory
compliance may substitute for each
year of college education lacking.)
A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Any
applicant who can provide proof of
unemployment, public assistance or
indigence is exempt from the filing
fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 52
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE OFFICER
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $26,273.96 - $68,744.81 per
year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE
TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 27, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 2, 2010.

1348

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION:
Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE:
Each applicant is required
to submit a detailed resume of
his/her education and experience at
the time of filing application.
NOTE:
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION
RESERVES
THE
RIGHT TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY AND ALL INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative direction, is
responsible for effectuating contracts. Establishes operative procedures, reposts forms, and recommends regulations for facilitation of
such Program. Meets with bidders
and contractors for the purpose of
clarifying the requirements of said
Program and also for the conducting of pre-award conferences, evaluating “affirmative action” plans by
said bidders and contractors assuring full compliance with equal
employment opportunity. Oversees
the filing of reports by bidders and
contractors both prior to and subsequent to the award of contracts containing
information
as
to
the
employment practices, policies, programs and statistics of the bidders
and contractors. Ensures project site
reports are completed on a periodic
basis to assure continued compliance with contractor commitments
made in connection with the Program. Makes recommendations to
the Mayor or Director of the using
department as to sufficiency of
apparent successful bidder’s compliance with the Program. In event of
non-compliance with contractor commitments made under the Program,
recommends sanctions as prescribed
by the City’s Equal Employment
Ordinances. Performs related duties
as required. Follows all operations
and safety policies and safe work
practices. Attends and participates
in operations and safety training
classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam). Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Finance, Business Administration,
Political Science, or related field
with coursework in Construction
Management, Basic Accounting, Research Skills, and Financial Analysis from an accredited four year college or university is required. Two
years of full time paid related experience in government or private

The City Record

August 25, 2010
industry is required. (Substitution:
Two years of full time experience
will substitute for each year of college education lacking.) One year of
supervisory experience is also required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Any
applicant who can provide proof of
unemployment, public assistance or
indigence is exempt from the filing
fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 53
DISEASE
SURVEILLANCE
CIALIST (OPEN)

SPE-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an OPEN examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $14.42 - $31.54 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE
CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 27, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 2, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2,
2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION:
Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, investigates cases
of infectious diseases in the community. Provides educational information on disease etiology. Assists
in the prevention and control of
communicable diseases. Assists with
outbreak investigations. Performs
field investigations and interviews.
Assists with outreach and education
to the community. Performs emergency preparedness activities. Performs other job-related duties as
required and/or mandated by the
grant or funding source. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and
participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence
may
be
determined
by
exam.) Wears and properly utilizes
safety equipment in accordance with
Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Health Sciences, Biology, Health
Education, Environmental Health,
Public Health, or closely related
field from an accredited four year
college or university is required.
The equivalent of one year full time
paid experience in a related field is
required. Must be knowledgeable in
communicable diseases and proficient in Microsoft Office. A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must own or have access
to a properly registered and insured
vehicle.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Any
applicant who can provide proof of
unemployment, public assistance or
indigence is exempt from the filing
fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

1349

55
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 54
MEDICAL BILLING REIMBURSEMENT SPECIALIST (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an OPEN examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $10.42 - $21.42 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE
TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 27, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 2, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2,
2010.
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISTHE
SION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION
TYPE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, accurately and properly manages receivables
for
emergency
ambulance
transportation. Posts, records, balances, and reconciles all accounts
which will require ongoing and persistent contact with patients and
payers. Analyzes outstanding patient
accounts and determines actions
necessary to resolve account receivable balances. Identifies trends and
requirements for healthcare reimbursement. Prepares and presents
reimbursement analysis and trends
and requirements for healthcare reimbursement. Prepares and presents
reimbursement analysis and trend
reports. Submits electronic and/or
paper medical claims. Recognizes
and handles all medical reimbursement denials and appeals in a timely manner. Performs other job related duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and
participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates

The City Record

56
competence (demonstration of commay
be
determined
by
petence
exam). Wears and properly utilizes
safety equipment in accordance with
Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Health
Information
Management
specializing in medical billing is
preferred. Medical billing certification by the National Academy of
Ambulance Coding, American Medical Billing Association, American
Academy of Professional Coders,
Board of Medical Specialty Coding,
Professional Association of Health
Care Coding Specialist, or a stateaccredited
educational
institution
that formally validates competencies in medical billing, healthcare
claims, and healthcare billing compliance is required. Two years of
full time paid combined experience
medical
billing/codperforming
ing/reimbursement/collections with
emphasis placed on prior experience
managing medical reimbursement
and collections functions is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Any
applicant who can provide proof of
unemployment, public assistance or
indigence is exempt from the filing
fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 55
MEDICAL CODER
ANALYST (OPEN)

AND

BILLING

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $10.17 - $22.07 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available

at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE
CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 27, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 2, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2,
2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
ALL
INFORMATION
CONAND
TAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.

August 25, 2010
Two years of full time paid combined experience performing medical billing or coding functions is
required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking
an examination on the basis of age,
education or failure to meet other
minimum entrance requirements, the
fee paid by such applicant shall be
refunded to such applicant upon the
applicant’s request in writing made
within ten (10) days after the date
of examination. Those individuals
presenting proof of unemployment
or public assistance AT THE TIME
OF FILING will be exempt from the
fee. A copy of such proof must be
included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, accurately and properly verifies, analyzes codes, and submits medical
claims. Collects all pertinent medical and billing collection data. Verifies and determines insurance coverage and eligibility. Reviews and
determines medical necessity as
well as most accurate ICD-9, CTP,
and/or HCPS codes based upon medical terminology, medical history,
clinical assessments, and treatment.
Prepares various forms of reports
and correspondence to patients and
payers which would include patient
invoices and electronic/paper claims.
Handles patient inquiries via phone
or written correspondence. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations
and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Health
Information
Management
specializing in medical billing is
preferred. Medical billing certification by the National Academy of
Ambulance Coding, American Medical Billing Association, American
Academy of Professional Coders,
Board of Medical Specialty Coding,
Professional Association of Health
Care Specialist, or a state-accredited
educational institution that formally
validates competencies in medical
billing, healthcare claims, and healthcare billing compliance is required.

1350

APPROVED C.S.C MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 56
SUPERVISOR
OF
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a Non-Competitive
examination for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $20,092.80 - $55,191.48 per
year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE
TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 27, 2010
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 2, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2,
2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION:
Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her

The City Record

August 25, 2010
education and experience
time of filing application.

at

the

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Provides general administrative and
budgetary support within the Department.
Works
under
limited
supervision, and provides direction
to clerical secretarial personnel.
Requires frequent inter-Department
contact with all levels of Management. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Business/Public Administration or
related field from an accredited college or university is required. Seven
years of progressively, responsible
full time paid experience in adminoperations
is
required.
istrative
Must have three years experience in
governmental systems, and various
processing software (Kronos and
People Soft.) Must possess proficient
computer
and
software
skills
(Microsoft Office), as well as excellent written and verbal communication skills. Must possess strong analytical and problem solving skills. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License
is required for this position. Individual must be able to lift and carry
thirty pounds. (Substitution: Two
years of full time experience may
substitute for each year of college
education lacking.)
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an
examination on the basis of age,
education or failure to meet other
minimum entrance requirements, the
fee paid by such applicant shall be
refunded to such applicant upon the
applicant’s request in writing made
within ten (10) days after the date
of examination. Any applicant who
can provide proof of unemployment,
public assistance or indigence is
exempt from the filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 57
WATER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION
INSPECTOR SUPERVISOR (PROMOTIONAL)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a PROMOTIONAL
examination for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $20,800.00 - $60,737.89 per
year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE
CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27,
2010 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2,
2010.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION

57
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Five years of full time
paid experience in the inspection of
water distribution, construction, and
installation work is required. Must
possess a valid State of Ohio Class
II Water Distribution License and a
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License.
Must be computer proficient and
familiar with software packages
including Microsoft Office, Ellipse,
CorVu, ArcGIS, and Irth. Must have
training in OSHA Trench and Excavation Safety, ODOT Traffic Control,
and Confined Spaces. Must be able
to lift and carry 50 pounds. (Must
be currently a Regular Water System Construction Inspector.)
NOTE: Applicants who are currently employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education
or failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded
to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in writing made within ten (10) days after the date of
examination. Any applicant who can
provide proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.

TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, oversees
all aspects of ongoing Contractual
Assistance contracts. Supervises Water
System Construction Inspectors. Schedules and assigns projects. Maintains
and manages a work group and
in spectors using appropriate software. Procures all material needed
through the Division of Water warehouse and/or outside vendors. Reviews construction plans, specifications, and contractual requirements.
Identifies, diagnoses, and resolves
problems and issues. Corresponds
with suburban service and fire departments. Monitors and reports on
daily construction projects. Attends
meetings and performs related duties
as required. Follows all operations
and safety policies and safe work
practices. Attends and participates
in operations and safety training
classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam). Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.

1351

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President
August 25, 2010

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2010
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 10-133: 2814 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 3)
Bounce Properties, LLC, owner,
appeal to construct a 703 square foot
outdoor patio deck to a legal nonconforming night club located on a
114' x 164' corner lot in a SemiIndustry District and subject to Section 359.01 requires Board of Zoning
Appeals approval for the proposed
development that is nonconforming
in parking and pursuant to Section
349.04(f) requires a parking area in
the amount of three times the gross
floor area of the night club and the
existing parking facilities may not
be reduced, as stated in Section
349.02 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.

The City Record

58
Calendar No. 10-138: 8101 Pulaski
Avenue (Ward 7)
Lorenzo Willis III, owner, Nellie
Williams and Tyrone Glass, tenants,
appeal to change an existing 2.5
story mixed use building to a day
care center located on a 45' x 58.28'
lot in a Multi-Family District; the
proposed use first permitted in a
Local Retail Business District and
pursuant to Section 359.01 the substitution or other change in a nonconforming use to other than a conforming use shall be permitted by
special permit from the Board of
Zoning Appeals, issued only if the
Board finds after public hearing
that the proposed substitution or
other change is no more harmful nor
objectionable than the previous nonconforming use in floor or other
space occupied, in volume of trade
or production, in kind of goods sold
or produced, in daily hours or other
period of use in the type or number
of persons to occupy or be attracted
to the premises, or in any other
characteristic of the new use as
compared with the previous use.
Calendar No. 10-140: 3298 West 126th
Street (Ward 17)
Daniel Wigfall, owner, and Tracy
Paxton, tenant, appeal to install a
5' x 5' wheel chair lift to the front
of a single family residence on a 35'
x 120' parcel in a Two-Family District, contrary to the yard space
requirements in Section 357.13 of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-142: 4780 West 130th
Street (Ward 18)
Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation, owner, appeals to install
approximately 124 linear feet of 6
foot high chain link fence on a 69'
x 140' lot in a Two-Family District,
contrary to Section 358.04(a) that
limits to 4 feet the fence height in
an actual front yard and requires
ornamental fence, for which the proposed chain link height of 6 feet
exceeds the measured distance of 4
feet from the fence line to the neighboring house contrary to the Fence
Regulations in the Cleveland Zoning
Code.
Calendar No. 10-143: 4790 West 130th
Street (Ward 18)
City of Cleveland, owner, and the
Department of Community Development appeal to install 137 linear feet
of 6 foot high chain link fence in
the actual front and side street
yards and side yard of a 51' x 140'
corner parcel in a Two-Family District; contrary to ornamental fence
that is required and a fence height
exceeding 4 feet that is allowed in
residential districts according to
Section 358.04(a) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, AUGUST 23, 2010
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, August
23, 2010, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 10-127: 10917 Dale
Avenue
Roland Sarai appealed to erect a
two-story frame, rear addition to a

August 25, 2010

single family residence in a OneFamily District.
The following appeals were Withdrawn:
None.
The following appeals were Dismissed:
None.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 10-129: 4219 Orchard
Avenue postponed to September
13, 2010.
Calendar No. 10-130: 18200 Lorain
Avenue postponed to September
20, 2010.
Calendar No. 10-132: 13351 Lorain
Avenue postponed to September 7,
2010.
Calendar No. 10-107: 3121 West 33rd
Street postponed to October 18,
2010.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on August 16, 2010 were
adopted and approved on August 23,
2010.
The
following
Denied:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 10-102: 3321 East
119th Street
Debra Martin appealed to change
a single family dwelling house to an
adult care facility in a Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 10-123: 4806 State
Road
Rai Gurdev and K. Harpual, owners, and Ray Elder, tenant appealed
to install 10 various wall signs on a
one-story building in a Local Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 10-126: 3036 Vega
Avenue
Jannette
Gomez
appealed
to
install 30 lineal feet of 4 feet high
wooden fence on the interior side
yard of a 40' x 132' parcel in a TwoFamily District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
August 18, 2010
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:

Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation Notice was properly issued
and the appeal is denied. The property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action, noting no
attendance by the Appellant and the
continued lack of effort by the
Motion
so
in
order.
Appellant.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-75-10.
RE: Appeal of Terrence Rollins,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit SinResidence
Two
&
gle-Family
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
10802 Morison Avenue from a 30
DAY
CONDEMNATION
ORDER—
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated October
27, 2008 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation Notice was properly issued
and the appeal is denied. The property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action, noting no
attendance by the Appellant and the
continued lack of effort by the
Motion
so
in
order.
Appellant.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-80-10.
RE: Appeal of David M. Dotson,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 1851 East 93rd
Street from a FORTHWITH CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated July 17, 2007 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant nine (9) months in which
to complete abatement of all violations. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-74-10.
RE: Appeal of Terrence Rollins,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
1105 Lakeview Road from a 30 DAY
CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated October 27, 2008
of the Director of the Department of

Docket A-116-10.
RE: Appeal of Tito M. Bradley,
Owner of the R-3 Residential – Nontransient; Townhomes (Independent
Egress) Two Story Frame Property
located on the premises known as
3371 East 116th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 14,
2009 of the Director of the Depart-

1352

The City Record

August 25, 2010
ment of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain all permits and six (6)
months in which to abate all violations. If additional time is required,
based on the progress as noted by
the
inspector
will
determine
whether an extension will be granted. Failure to obtain the permits or
make unsatisfactory progress in six
(6) months will REMAND the property immediately. The property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-117-10.
RE: Appeal of Eaton Rugby LLC,
Owner of the 56 Unit Property located on the premises known as 7338
Euclid Avenue from a RENTAL
REGISTRATION FEES, dated February 12, 2010 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-117-10 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-118-10.
RE:
Appeal
of
David
James,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 19015 Nottingham Road from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated January 14,
2008 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to obtain all required permits and
complete abatement of all violations. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-119-10.
RE:
Appeal
of
Rose
Strauss,
Owner of the MXD uses – Multiple
Uses In One Building Four Story
Masonry Walls/Wood Floors Property located on the premises known
as 3500 Payne Avenue from a
VACATE ORDER and an IMMEDIATE CEASE USE ORDER, both
dated March 22, 2010 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing and from the Chief of the
Division of Fire, requiring compli-

ance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to cease all use
of the first, third and fourth floors
of the building, and to require that
floors 1, 3 and 4 be broom cleaned.
To permit continuous use of the second floor in its present manner with
15 people for the business use only
for four (4) weeks from today’s
date; and to require the premises be
open for inspection within two (2)
weeks from today’s date. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-120-10.
RE: Appeal of Old Landmark
Christian Ministries, Owner of the R3 Residential – Non-transient; Townhomes (Independent Egress) Two &
One/half Story Masonry Property
located on the premises known as
922 East 76th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated May 26, 210 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date; the docket is
rescheduled for September 1, 2010.
*    *    *
Docket A-122-10.
RE: Appeal of Dorris Diamond,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
3070 East 123rd Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated March 29, 2010
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will remain open and rescheduled
for a later date.
*    *    *
Docket A-123-10.
RE: Appeal of Sheo Narayan
Prasad, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
10739 Crestwood Avenue from a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 09,
2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to obtain all permits and complete
abatement of the violations, noting
that work should be coordinated
between the contractor and the
inspector. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

1353

59
Docket A-124-10.
RE: Appeal of U.S. Bank, NA, Successor By Merger to The Leader
Mortgage Co., Mortgagee of Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 6607 Bonna Avenue from
a CONDEMNATION ORDER—MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated March 02, 2009
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to complete obtaining of all permits
and the final inspection of the property. The property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for superviand
any
required
further
sion
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-128-10.
RE: Appeal of David M. Dotson,
Owner of the Two & One/half Story
Wood
Frame/Siding/Masonry
Veneer Property located on the
premises known as 1846 East 93rd
from
a
CONDEMNATION
Street
ORDER—MAIN STRUCTURE, dated
April 06, 2010 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant forty-five (45) days in
which to submit plans and obtain
permits and six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of the violations, and that extensions can be
granted at the discretion of the
inspector. Failure to meet either
deadline will result in the property
being
REMANDED
immediately.
The property is REMANDED the
property to the Department of Building and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-129-10.
RE:
Appeal
of
Nevitt
Butler,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
1826 East 93rd Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated April 06, 2010 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant forty-five (45) days in
which to complete abatement of the
violations.
The
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

The City Record

60
Docket A-184-10.
RE: Appeal of Gwendolyn Burtin,
Owner of the Three Dwelling Units
Residence
Two
&
Three-Family
Story
Frame
Property
One/half
located on the premises known as
4050 East 141st Street from a CONORDER—MAIN
DEMNATION
STRUCTURE, dated July 20, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 4050 East 141st Street to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

Frame Property located on the
premises known as 2239 East 84th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN STRUCTURE, dated
June 14, 2010 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *

*    *    *
Docket A-229-10.
RE: Appeal of Pawan K. Mangla,
Owner of the M Mercantile – Retail
Shops, Carry-out Food Shops One
Story Masonry Property located on
the premises known as 3292 Fulton
Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION—UNAUTHORIZED/ILLEGAL
USE, dated April 14, 2010, and from
a NOTICE OF VIOLATION—ELECTRICAL, dated April 15, 2010 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to apply for and obtain the required
permits to continue operating, and
to cease operating the business. The
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-284-10.
RE: Appeal of Takeeyia Fowlkes,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
2316 East 84th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated June 14, 2010 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations and obtain the required final
permits. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-298-10.
RE: Appeal of Takeeyia Fowlkes,
Owner of the Three Dwelling Units
Three-Family Residence Three Story

EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-90-09 – Marcia Brentson
– 1867 West 47th Street:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant six (6)
months in which to complete abatement of the violations, with additional time to be granted if progress
is continual to the satisfaction of
the
inspector.
The
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing. Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-91-09 – Marcia Brentson
– 1855-57 West 47th Street:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant six (6)
months in which to complete abatement of the violations, with additional time to be granted if progress
is continual to the satisfaction of
the
inspector.
The
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing. Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
AMENDED RESOLUTIONS:
Docket A-59-10.
RE: Appeal of Richard C. Davis,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
9407
Gorman
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION—EXTERIOR MAINTE-NANCE, dated November 03, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
FROM: …to find that the Violation
Notice was properly issued and to
REMAND
the
property
to
the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting that no work
has been done.…
TO: …to grant the Appellant a six
(6) month extension to complete
abatement of all violations. The
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and

1354

August 25, 2010
Housing for supervision and any
required further action.…
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-79-10.
Appeal
of
Csaba
Varga,
RE:
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 949 East 140th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN STRUCTURE, dated
April 27, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
FROM: …to find that the Violation
Notice was properly issued and to
the
property
to
the
REMAND
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting that no work
has been done by the appellant and
the Appellant was not present for
the hearing and has postponed one
hearing in the past.…
TO: …to grant the Appellant thirty (30) days in which to obtain the
required permits, two (2) months in
which to complete abatement of the
exterior violations, and four (4)
months in which to complete abatement of the interior violations. The
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action.…
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-106-10.
RE: Appeal of Stephen T. Farris,
Owner of Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two & One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 3204 East 121st
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MAIN STRUCTURE, dated
March 04, 2010 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compli-ance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
FROM: …to REMAND the property at 3204 East 121st Street to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting that he exterior has been stripped of the facilities required for occupancy; and to
prohibit the owner and any occupant
from living in the property until a
Certificate
of
Occupancy
is
obtained.…
TO: … to grant the Appellant thirty (30) days in which to obtain permits and one hundred twenty (120)
days in which to complete abatement of all violations, noting that a
partial Certificate of Occupancy, for
a single occupant for security, can
be granted by the building official.
The property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action.…
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following

The City Record

August 25, 2010
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-399-09 — Gaynell C. Sims-Jones
A-99-10 — Gregory W. Davies
A-100-10 — Kenneth & Sharon
Davis
A-101-10 — Nicole Wright
A-102-10 — Romello’s Investment
Group Inc.
A-103-10 — Ireda Brent
A-104-10 — Verlyn Salters
A-105-10 — Verlyn Salters
A-107-10 — Terry Garrett
A-108-10 — AAA Cleaning Painting
A-110-10 — Anthony Whitt
A-112-10 — Junior Jay
A-113-10 — Jennifer J. Poe
A-114-10 — Anthony Drury & Margaret Drury
A-269-10 — Cuyahoga County
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
August 4, 2010
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE

Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2010
File No. 135-2010 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Repair and Maintain Combination Sewer and Catch
Basin Cleaning Trucks, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, AUGUST 27, 2010 AT 11:30
A.M. WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY AVENUE,
GREEN
CONFERENCE
WPC
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
File No. 136-2010 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Repair and Maintain T.V. Inspection Trucks, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, AUGUST 27, 2010 AT 11:00
A.M. WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY AVENUE,
WPC
GREEN
CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
File No. 142-2010 — Keys, Locks and
Hardware, for the various Divisions
of
City
government,
Department of Public Utilities,
as authorized by Section 181.101
of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2010 AT 1:00
P.M. THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, ROOM
128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114
File No. 143-2010 — Welding Equipment, Supplies and Materials, for
the various Divisions of City
government, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2010 AT 10:30
A.M. THE DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, ROOM
128, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114
August 18, 2010 and August 25, 2010

1355

61
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2010
No.
137-2010
—
Various
File
Remanufactured
Auto/Truck
Transmissions and Repairs, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 686-07, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 11,
2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2010 AT 10:30
A.M. MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
STREET,
44105.
File No. 138-2010 — Pen-Base and IMobile Computers, Equipment and
Accessories, for the Division of
Emergency Medical Service, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 599-10,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 7, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDAPRE-BID
MEETING
TORY
THURSDAY, AUGUST 26, 2010
AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND EMS
HEADQUARTERS, 1701 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
August 18, 2010 and August 25, 2010
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2010
File No. 140-2010 — Purchase of
Labor and Materials to Refurbish
and Repair of Water Pumps Including Electric Motors, Controls and
Appurtenances (Re-Bid), for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 587-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 1, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, AUGUST 27, 2010 AT 2:30
P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDINGS,
MAIN AUDITORIUM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
August 18, 2010 and August 25, 2010
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2010
File No. 141-2010 — Fence Installation, Maintenance and /or Repair
(Re-Bid), for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 395-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 20, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 2010 AT 11:00
A.M. WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY AVENUE,
WPC RED CONFERENCE ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
August 18, 2010 and August 25, 2010
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2010
File No. 144-2010 — Purchase of
Standalone Crash Phone System,
Including Installation and Testing,
for the Division of Burke Lake-

The City Record

62
front
Airport,
Department
of
Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 814-08, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, July 2, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDAPRE-BID MEETING FRITORY
DAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2010 AT
10:00 A.M. BURKE LAKEFRONT
MAIN
TERMINAL
AIRPORT,
BUILDING, ROOM 106, 1501 NORTH
MARGINAL ROAD, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
August 25, 2010 and September 1, 2010

Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

August 25, 2010
Nadler (D-NY) and Senator Patrick
Leahy (D-VT), The Lesbian Gay
Bisexual Transgender Community
Center of Greater Cleveland, and
Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2010
File No. 145-2010 — Urban Forestry
Property Maintenance Service, for
the Division of Park Maintenance
Properties,
Department
of
and
Recreation, Recreation & Properties, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 15, 2010 AT 10:00 A.M.
THE DIVISION OF PARK MAINTENANCE & PROPERTIES WAREHOUSE, UPSTAIRS CONFERENCE
ROOM, 4150 EAST 49TH STREET,
BUILDING 6, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44105.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
August 25, 2010 and September 1, 2010

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 610-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (By
Request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Perry Court N.E. (12 feet wide) extending from the easterly right of
way line of East 25th Street (66 feet
wide) to the westerly right of way
line of East 26th Street (66 feet wide).
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Perry Court N.E. (12 feet
wide), as described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the State of Ohio,
County of Cuyahoga and City of
Cleveland and known as being part
of ten acre lots 110, 111, 112 and 113
in the Perry and Payne’s Subdivision as recorded in volume 2, page
29 of Cuyahoga County Map Records
and described as follows:
Being all that portion of Perry
Court N.E. (12 feet wide) extending
from the easterly right of way line
of East 25th Street (66 feet wide) to
the westerly right of way line of
East 26th Street (66 feet wide).

Res. No. 1053-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone and Mayor Jackson.
An emergency resolution urging
Congress to pass the Uniting American Families Act and supporting
the removal of legal barriers to
immigration by permanent samegender partners.
Whereas, every American is entitled to equal protection under the
law; and
Whereas, the U.S. immigration
system is largely based upon the
principle of family unification; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
celebrates and respects all immigrant
groups
and
all
families,
including those of same-sex gay and
lesbian partners; and
Whereas, Federal law does not
currently
recognize
permanent
same-gender partners for immigration purposes; and
Whereas, this results in thousands
of United States citizens being
forced into exile to be with foreignborn partners, causing unnecessary
hardship, separation from family
members and careers, and loss of
valuable skills and resources for our
country; and
Whereas, it is estimated some
36,000 gay and lesbian American citizens are in same-gender bi-national
relationships and are affected by
lack of rights and protections of
their relationships at the federal
level; and
Whereas, The Uniting American
Families Act (UAFA) was introduced in Congress on February 12,
2009 by Senator Patrick Leahy (DVT)
and
Representative
Jerrod
Nadler (D-NY) to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act and
allow
U.S.
immigration
law
by
adding three words – “or permanent
partner” – wherever the word spouse
appears; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
fully supports the measures of Congress to allow gay and lesbian partners to access immigration benefits
in an equal and fair manner, equivalent to opposite sex partners who
currently enjoy such legal rights;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
Congress to pass the Uniting American Families Act and supporting
the removal of legal barriers to
immigration by permanent samegender partners.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
the Ohio Congressional delegation,
bill sponsors Representative Jerrold

1356

Res. No. 1054-10.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Brancatelli, Sweeney, Brady, Cimperman, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed
and Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting Cleveland Housing Court Judge
Raymond
Pianka
in
his
recent
efforts to require negligent property owners to pay victim restitution
to neighbors affected by neglected
properties.
Whereas, neglected, vacant and
abandoned properties often become
a breeding ground for crime and
fires, and require a disproportionate
amount of government maintenance,
from securing properties against
criminal activity to removal of
garbage and rodents to demolition,
all at a cost to taxpayers; and
Whereas, neglected, vacant and
abandoned properties reduce city
tax revenue in three ways: they are
often tax delinquent; their low value
means they generate little in taxes;
and they depress property values
across an entire neighborhood; and
Whereas, the citizens who live in
a neighborhoods with many neglected, vacant and abandoned properties
have
great
difficulty
obtaining
homeowner’s insurance, mortgages
and loans for home improvements;
and
Whereas, neglected, vacant and
abandoned properties degrade and
devalue the quality of life for
remaining residents, isolating and
weakening the neighborhood, and
increasing the likelihood that property values will continue to decline
and further abandonment will set in;
and
Whereas, that a recent study by
CWRU indicates that in the City of
Cleveland properties lose 70% of
their value following foreclosure;
and
Whereas, many owners of neglected, vacant and abandoned properties
routinely defy local law to bring
properties to housing code standards; and
Whereas, Judge Pianka in his
responsibility
as
the
Cleveland
Housing Court Judge is knowledgeable of all the powers of the court
and the full extent of existing law;
and
Whereas, Judge Pianka is rightfully exercising the full extent of
the existing law; and
Whereas, the Court is an essential
element of law enforcement; and
Whereas, existing law recognizes
the rights of property owners who
have economically suffered by the
willful negligence of property owners who defy local housing code
law; and

August 25, 2010
Whereas, Judge Pianka recogthe
application
of
Ohio
nizes
Revised Code regarding the ability
of a victim to seek restitution in
criminal cases; and
Whereas, Judge Pianka’s latest
efforts to enforce housing codes and
provide redress to those property
owners who have been affected by
the negligence of those who habitually defy housing code requirements
will benefit the residents of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Supporting Cleveland
Housing
Court
Judge
Raymond
Pianka in his recent efforts to
require negligent property owners
to pay victim restitution to neighbors affected by neglected properties.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Judge
Raymond Pianka, Cleveland Housing Court, Frank G. Jackson, Mayor,
City of Cleveland, Robert Triozzi,
Law Director, City of Cleveland, and
James Rokakis, Cuyahoga County
Treasurer.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1057-10.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 7025 Fleet Avenue
and repealing Resolution No. 525-10,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 7025
Fleet Avenue by Resolution No. 52510 adopted by the Council on April
19, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of liquor license and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Fleet Gas
Mart, Inc., 6025 Fleet Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
2772868 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 52510, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1058-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit at 4002 Jennings
Road, 1st floor, and repealing Resolution No. 848-10, objecting to said
transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
Wards Tavern, LLC, 4002 Jennings
Road, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent No. 9402086, by
Resolution No. 848-10 adopted by the
Council on June 7, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2,
C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to
Mahaden Trading Co., DBA Boarding House Deli & Carryout, 11313
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44106, Permanent Number 5433601 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 170-06, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1059-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 1104 Rowley Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation

1357

63
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 6985049 owned by
Rowley Inn, 1104 Rowley Avenue,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1060-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 526
Superior Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 7655380

64
owned by SWB Bar One, LLC, 526
Superior Avenue, 1st floor, basement
and patio, Suite #101, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1061-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 75
Public Square, Suite B-100.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 9148958
owned by Underground Entertainment, Inc., DBA Underground, 75
Public Square, Suite B-100, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

The City Record
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1062-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of Liquor License
of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 1917 West 25th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Clifton W. 117th, LLC, DBA City
Place & Patio, 11636 Clifton Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 1557204 to Ala Turka,
Inc., DBA Ala Turka, 1917 West 25th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 0093196; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1358

August 25, 2010
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Clifton W. 117th, LLC, DBA City
Place & Patio, 11636 Clifton Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 1557204 to Ala Turka,
Inc., DBA Ala Turka, 1917 West 25th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, PerNumber
0093196,
and
manent
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1063-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of Liquor License
of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
7002 Cedar Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from David Lee
Jackson, Jr., DBA Pat’s Delicatessan, 5204 St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor
front, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 4197482 to Cedarcrest
Foods, Inc., DBA Cedar Crest Foods,
7002 Cedar Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 1350137;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

August 25, 2010
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from David Lee Jackson, Jr., DBA Pat’s Delicatessan,
5204 St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor front,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 4197482 to Cedarcrest Foods,
Inc., DBA Cedar Crest Foods, 7002
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
Cedar
44103, Permanent Number 1350137 ,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1064-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3194 West 25th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
91163200005 owned by 2109 Tate,
Inc., DBA Teri O’s Lounge, 3194

The City Record
West 25th Street, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1065-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 3194 West
25th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit from Muggs, Inc., 3194 West
25th Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 6213011 to 2109 Tate, Inc.,
DBA Teri O’s Lounge, 3194 West
25th Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 91163200005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safe-

1359

65
ty and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Muggs, Inc., 3194 West
25th Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 6213011 to 2109 Tate, Inc.,
DBA Teri O’s Lounge, 3194 West
25th Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 91163200005; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1066-10.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
12301-03 Imperial Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from Hiam A.
Inc.,
12301-03
Imperial
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 3820139 to Sophie T. Inc.,
DBA Imperial Deli & Beverage,
12301-03 Imperial Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
9120790; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public

66
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Hiam A. Inc.,
12301-03 Imperial Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
3820139 to Sophie T. Inc., DBA Imperial Deli & Beverage, 12301-03 Imperial Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
Permanent
Number
9120790;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1067-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit at 16101
Arcade Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 7931681 owned by
Walter Scott, DBA Arcade Bar, 16101
Arcade
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44110, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1068-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 18414-16 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2296200 owned by DPG
Lounge, LLC, DBA The Dog Pound,
18414-16 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44110, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to

1360

August 25, 2010
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1069-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2, C2X and D6
Liquor Permit at 15637 St. Clair
Avenue, and repealing Resolution
No. 950-10, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2,
C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to 15637
St. Clair Avenue by Resolution No.
950-10 adopted by the Council on
July 14, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
between
Applicant Pruthvash Patel, President of Sujata, Inc., and Councilmember Michael D. Polensek; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C2, C2X
and D6 Liquor Permit to Sujata, Inc.,
DBA Stop-n-Save Food Mart, 15637
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, Permanent Number 8681392 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 950-10, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1070-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 3249 East 143rd Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

August 25, 2010
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7207558 owned by Rashiqa, Inc.,
DBA East 143rd Food Market, 3249
East 143rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1071-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 14731
Miles Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disre-

The City Record
gard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8774196
owned by TT & B, Inc., DBA Atmosphere Bar & Grill, 14731 Miles
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1072-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 4563 Warner Road, and
repealing
Resolution
No.
570-10,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Padmavati
Stores, Inc., DBA Cleveland Convenience Store, 4563 Warner Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
No. 6620004, by Resolution No. 570-10
adopted by the Council on April 26,
2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Padmavati
Stores, Inc., DBA Convenience Store,
4563 Warner Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent No. 6620004, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 570-10, containing

1361

67
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1079-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 2045
East 21st Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2293436
owned by Downunder Entertainment, LLC, DBA Peabody’s Entertainment, 2045 East 21st Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

68
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1080-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 1628-38 Fall Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 5416875 owned by Frank
D. Maenza, DBA Diamonds Men’s
Club, 1628-38 Fall Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1081-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 812
Huron Road, E.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 0766768
owned by Blues To You, Inc., DBA
Wilberts, 812 Huron Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44115 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1082-10.
By Council Member Cimperman
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 21
Prospect Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

1362

August 25, 2010
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2600072
owned by FFB Cleveland, LLC, DBA
Fat Fish Blue, 21 Prospect Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1083-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 618
Prospect Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation

August 25, 2010
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 9271908
owned by View Cleveland, LLC, 618
Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1084-10.
By Council Member Cimperman
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor
Permit
at
2710
Lorain
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renew-

The City Record
al of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9116883 owned by 2710,
Inc., DBA Touch Supper Club, 2710
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
Lorain
44113 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1085-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 2233 West 3rd Street, 1st
floor and patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3587876
owned
by
Patricia
A.
Hanych, 2233 West 3rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

1363

69
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1086-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 1392 West 6th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 5829842 owned by Mercury Lounge, LLC, 1392 West 6th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

70
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1087-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1616
West 25th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6548374
owned by 1616 Arabic Restaurant,
Inc., DBA Kan Zaman, 1616 West
25th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

The City Record
Res. No. 1088-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1 and D2 and to the Liquor
Agency Contract located at 7401-05
Central Avenue and basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1 and
D2 from GDMG & J Corporation,
DBA Tom’s Market & Deli, 7401-05
Avenue
and
basement,
Central
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 2977262 to Gurdev, Inc., DBA
Deeps State Liquor & Market, 740105 Central Avenue and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 3452641 and to the application of a Liquor Agency Contract,
Permit Number 3452641; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1 and D2
from GDMG & J Corporation, DBA
Tom’s Market & Deli, 7401-05 Central
Avenue and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
2977262 to Gurdev, Inc., DBA Deeps
State Liquor & Market, 7401-05 Central Avenue and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
3452641, and to the application of a
Liquor
Agency
Contract,
Permit
Number 3452641 ; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

1364

August 25, 2010
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1089-10.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 5100
Pearl Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor
Permit,
Permit
No.
00094580005 owned by A & E Investments Co., DBA Its Station, 5100
Pearl Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44129
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

August 25, 2010
Res. No. 1090-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 9102 Aetna Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6061800 owned by Tyson Mitchell,
9102 Aetna Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44102 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1091-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
at
12401
Corlett
Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)

The City Record
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0160894 owned by Amana
My Way Deli, Inc., DBA Corlett Deli,
12401 Corlett Avenue, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1092-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
at
10808
Dove
Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

1365

71
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6503136 owned by Ocean,
Inc., 10808 Dove Avenue, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1093-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3661 East 93rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renew-

72
al of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6424592 owned by 93
Aetna, Inc., 3661 East 93rd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1094-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 3831 East 93rd Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6379708 owned by New Star Market,
Ltd., 3831 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies

The City Record
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1095-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3643 East 116th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7184705 owned by Rana
Guraan, Inc., DBA Nadia’s, 3643 East
116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

1366

August 25, 2010
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1096-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3705 East 116th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3675668 owned by Havi 2,
LLC, DBA Big Bite, 3705 East 116th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

August 25, 2010
Res. No. 1097-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 4096-98 East 131st
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0118684 owned by Aliah
Josephine, Inc., DBA Chillies, 409698 East 131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1098-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3744 East 144th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal

The City Record
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 5202187 owned by Lilly
Aziza, Inc., DBA One Stop Market,
3744 East 144th Street, 1st floor only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1099-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3904 Martin Luther
King, Jr. Boulevard, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

1367

73
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4034257-0005 owned by
Pamela Hubbard, DBA McClain’s
Market II, 3904 Martin Luther King
Jr. Boulevard, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1100-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 9305 Miles Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

74
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6416088 owned by NinetyThree Miles, Inc., DBA Convenience
Plus Food Mart, 9305 Miles Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1101-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 9911 Miles Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4290858 owned by Jiryes Unlimited,
Inc., DBA Neighborhood Market,
9911 Miles Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1102-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 11334 Miles Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 5951324 owned by Miles
Mini Mart, Inc., 11334 Miles Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

1368

August 25, 2010
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1103-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D4 Liquor
Permit at 4595 Turney Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D4 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6530213 owned by Old Timers Club
of Garfield Heights, Inc., 4595 Turney Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

August 25, 2010
Res. No. 1104-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4563 Warner Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0498906 owned by Basimas Market, Inc., 4563 Warner Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1106-10.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3850 East 65th
Street, 1st floor only.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)

The City Record
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2760315 owned by Five
Star Robin, Inc., DBA Mike’s Food
Mart, 3850 East 65th Street, 1st floor
only, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1107-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3314
Broadview Road, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

1369

75
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 6483695 owned by
N Yuk Yuks Bar & Grill, Inc., DBA
N Yuk N Yuk, 3314 Broadview Road,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1108-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of C1 Liquor Permit at 2101 Denison Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renew-

76
al of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7363142 owned by Ridas Deli, Inc.,
2101 Denison Avenue, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1109-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1701
East 12th Street, Suite R135 and 1st
floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6549231
owned by 1701 East 12th LLC, DBA
Scorchers, 1701 East 12th Street,
Suite R135 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44114 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

The City Record
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1110-10.
By Council Member Cimperman
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 1740 East 17th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6548846 owned by 1740
East Seventeenth Street, LLC, DBA
Moe’s Bar, 1740 East 17th Street, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44114 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

1370

August 25, 2010
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1111-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 2325 Elm Street,
Bar 3 and Bar 4.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit Nos. 5870816, 58708160003 and
58708160004 owned by Metropolis
Night Club, Inc., 2325 Elm Street,
Bar 3 and Bar 4, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

August 25, 2010
Res. No. 1112-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1204
Old River Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit Nos. 5337947,
53379470003 and 53379470004 owned
by Lucic Enterprises, Inc., DBA
Lucics, 1204 Old River Road, Mezzanine and patios, Cleveland, Ohio
44113 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1113-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D1, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 2030-32 West
25th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal

The City Record
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit, Permit No. 3375827 owned by
Gridlock Co., DBA Club Argos, 203032 West 25th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44113 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1114-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 2132 West
25th Street, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other

1371

77
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 9956778 owned by
ZMDS
Entertainment,
Inc.,
DBA
Envy Lounge, 2132 West 25th Street,
1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44113 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1115-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 3232
Lakeside Avenue and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

78
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2779680
owned
by
Flextron
LLC,
DBA
Gotcha Inn, 3232 Lakeside Avenue
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1116-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 18414-16 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2296200 owned by DPG
Lounge,
LLC,
18414-16
St.
Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1117-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Permit
at
5910
Detroit
Liquor
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 91255550005 owned by
Two N, Inc., DBA Convenient Food
Mart #3112, 5910 Detroit Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

1372

August 25, 2010
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1118-10.
By Council Members Cimperman
Sweeney and Zone.
An emergency resolution declaring public intent to engage in a public dialogue and series of solutions
to address race relations in our
downtown Cleveland; engage the
Fair Housing Board to hear and
mediate
civil
rights
complaints;
work with U.S. Attorney, Steve Dettlebach to educate downtown establishments regarding patrons’ civil
rights; and resolve to keep our
Downtown Cleveland safe through
fair and consistent application of
the law.
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
declares public intent to engage in
a public dialogue and series of solutions to address the issue of race
relations in our Downtown Cleveland community; and
Whereas, through a series of community meetings the public will
engage in direct, honest, candid, collaborative dialogue with Cleveland
Council,
Council
President
City
Sweeney, Mayor Jackson, the Community Relations Board, Fair Housing Board, Department of Public
Safety,
Downtown
Cleveland
Alliance, NAACP, Cleveland State
University,
Tri-C,
the
Southern
Christian
Leadership
Conference,
and
other
interested
parties
to
achieve understanding and a constructive action plan to improve
race relations in our Downtown; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
requests that Mr. Marinucci, CEO of
Downtown
Cleveland
Alliance,
research
best-practices
in
other
cities to achieve racial and cultural
assimilation and celebration in their
downtown entertainment districts;
and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
and interested parties will engage
the City of Cleveland’s Fair Housing Board to hear and mediate complaints of civil rights violations by
Downtown establishments; and
Whereas, the Fair Housing Board
has the responsibility under Codified Ordinance Sections 667.01 and
667.012 to hear complaints of unlawful discriminatory public accommodations
practices,
including
a
refusal by a place of public accommodation to offer goods, services or
facilities to any person because of
membership in a protected class;
and
Whereas, the Fair Housing Board
can serve as an important first step
in resolving complaints of discrimination by exercising its duties to
investigate complaints, engage in a
conciliation process with the parties,
hold hearings, issue fact finding
decisions, and dismiss complaints or
assess compensatory damages and
civil penalties as appropriate; and
Whereas, we will all work to
assure that funds are in place to do
this important work; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
requests that entertainment estab-

August 25, 2010
lishments in Downtown Cleveland
discuss and report how they will
post their establishment rules in
writing in their lobbies for all
patrons to see; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
and all interested parties will work
with U.S. Attorney, Steve Dettlebach
in his efforts to educate downtown
establishments regarding patrons’
civil rights and discrimination laws;
and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
and all interested parties resolve to
keep our Downtown Cleveland safe
through fair and consistent application of the law; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares public intent to engage in
a public dialogue and series of solutions to address race relations in our
downtown Cleveland; engage the
Fair Housing Board to hear and
mediate
civil
rights
complaints;
work with U.S. Attorney, Steve Dettlebach to educate downtown establishments regarding patrons’ civil
rights; and resolve to keep our
Downtown Cleveland safe through
fair and consistent application of
the law.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
Jackson,
the
Community
Mayor
Relations
Board,
Fair
Housing
Board, Department of Public Safety,
Downtown
Cleveland
Alliance,
NAACP, Stanley Miller, Cleveland
State
University
President
Ron
Berkman, Tri-C President Dr. Jerry
Sue Thornton, the Southern Christian
Leadership
Conference,
and
Mansfield Frasier.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1119-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3801-03
Denison Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4817939 owned by
Kovach-Ford,
Inc.,
DBA
Pinky’s
Café, 3801-03 Denison Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1120-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5J and D6
Liquor Permit at 15617 Waterloo
Road, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5J and D6 Liquor Permit,

1373

79
Permit No. 3592954 owned by Harbor
Pub LLC, DBA Harbor Pub, 15617
Waterloo Road, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1121-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3129 West 25th Street, 1st
floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2251417 owned by Doned, Inc., DBA
Peek A Boo Club, 3129 West 25th
Street,
1st
floor
and
basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuya-

80
hoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1122-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of aD2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3180-84
West 25th Street, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
pursuant
to
Section
Whereas,
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8412882 owned by
Speakeasy Management, Inc., 3180-84
West 25th Street, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1123-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2850 West 25th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4895628 owned by Krupa
Two, Inc., DBA I-90 Citgo Road
Mart, 2850 West 25th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44109 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

1374

August 25, 2010
Res. No. 1124-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 5351-53
Dolloff Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
grounds
as
set
forth
in
legal
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 9862110 owned by
Your Place & Mine, LLC, DBA Your
Place & Mine, 5351-53 Dolloff Road,
P.O. Box 27544, Cleveland, Ohio
44127 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1178-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 16826 Lakeshore Boulevard.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renew-

August 25, 2010
al of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal
of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4979600 owned by Lake Shore Cocktails, LLC, 16826 Lakeshore Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
upon
substantial
legal
based
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Res. No. 1179-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4360 Lee Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, to Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may
object to the renewal of a permit
based upon legal grounds as set
forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 5088723 owned by Lee
Miles Service, Inc., DBA Lee Miles
Citgo, 4360 Lee Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44128 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 547-10.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Veterans Development, LLC. to encroach into the public right-of-way of East 105th Street
by installing, using, and maintaining federally-required security bollards and a pedestrian bridge.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Veterans Development,
LLC., 5069 Corbin Drive, Bedford
Heights, Ohio 44128 (“Permittee”), to
encroach into the public right-ofway of East 105th Street by installing, using, and maintaining federally-required security bollards and
a pedestrian bridge, at the following locations:
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
ENCROACHMENT
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and being part of the present
right-of-way of East 105th Street, of

1375

81
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 393 and 394 and being further bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a stone monument
with drill hole found in the centerline of East 105th Street, 60 feet
wide at its intersection with the centerline of Wade Park, 70 feet wide,
which point is also the Northeasterly corner of Original 100 Acre Lot
No. 393; Thence North 89° - 48' - 25"
West, along the centerline of Wade
Park a distance of 30.00 feet to a
point; Thence South 0° - 00' - 00"
East, a distance of 35.00 feet to a
drill hole found in the Southerly line
of Wade Park at its intersection
with the Westerly line of East 105th
Street; Thence continuing South 0° 00' - 00" East, along said Westerly
line of East 105th Street a distance
of 523.72 feet to the principal place
of beginning of the parcel of land
herein described;
Thence North 90° - 00' - 00" East,
a distance of 60.00 feet to a point in
the Easterly line of East 105th
Street;
Thence South 00° - 00' - 00" East,
along said Easterly line a distance
of 20.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 90° - 00' - 00" West,
a distance of 60.00 feet to a point in
the Westerly line of East 105th
Street;
Thence North 00° - 00' - 00" East,
along said Westerly line a distance
of 20.00 feet to the principal place
of beginning and containing 0.027
acres (1,200 square feet) of land, as
described by Stephen Hovancsek &
Associates, Inc., in March 2010 under
the direction of Robert Smoltz, Registered Surveyor No. 6763, State of
Ohio, be the same more or less but
subject to all legal highways.
Basis of bearings for this description being the centerline of East
105th St., established as South 0° 00' - 00" West in aforesaid Lot Split
and Consolidation Plat recorded in
Volume 352 of Maps, Page 94 of
Cuyahoga County Records and used
to denote angles only.
BOLLARDS ENCROACHMENT
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and being part of the present
right-of-way of East 105th Street, of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 393 and being further bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a stone monument
with drill hole found in the centerline of East 105th Street, 60 feet
wide at its intersection with the centerline of Wade Park, 70 feet wide,
which point is also the Northeasterly corner of Original 100 Acre Lot
No. 393; Thence North 89° - 48' - 25"
West, along the centerline of Wade
Park a distance of 30.00 feet to a
point; Thence South 0° - 00' - 00"
East, a distance of 35.00 feet to a
drill hole found in the Southerly line
of Wade Park at its intersection
with the Westerly line of East 105th
Street; Thence continuing South 0° 00' - 00" East, along said Westerly
line of East 105th Street a distance
of 523.72 feet to the principal place
of beginning of the parcel of land
herein described;
Thence North 90° - 00' - 00" East,
a distance of 10.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 00° - 00' - 00" East,
a distance of 230.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 90° - 00' - 00" West,
a distance of 10.00 feet to a point in
the Westerly line of East 105th
Street;

82
Thence North 00° - 00' - 00" East,
along said Westerly line a distance
of 230.00 feet to the principal place
of beginning and containing 0.053
acres (2,300 square feet) of land, as
described by Stephen Hovancsek &
Associates, Inc., in March 2010 under
the direction of Robert Smoltz, Registered Surveyor No. 6763, State of
Ohio, be the same more or less but
subject to all legal highways.
Basis of bearings for this description being the centerline of East
105th St., established as South 0° 00' - 00" West in aforesaid Lot Split
and Consolidation Plat recorded in
Volume 352 of Maps, Page 94 of
Cuyahoga County Records and used
to denote angles only.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly indemnified the City against
any loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 550-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
various improvements to Cleveland
Brown’s Stadium, including replacing an expansion joint and making
various concrete and steel repairs;
and authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to

The City Record
make the public improvement of
constructing various improvements
to Cleveland Brown’s Stadium, inreplacing
an
expansion
cluding
joint and making various concrete
and steel repairs, for the Division of
Architecture, Department of Public
Service, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the improvement, provided, however, that each
separate trade and each distinct
component part of the improvement
may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. On
request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule
of unit prices, including profit and
overhead, for all items constituting
units of the improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
and pay for permits, licenses, or
other authorizations required by any
regulatory agency or public authority to permit performance of the
work authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 20-111, Request
No. RQS 4002 RL 2010-80.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 652-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the Board of Cuyahoga County Commissioners for the replacement of
Cedar Road bridge No. 229 over
Doan Brook; authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into
any relative agreements; and to
apply for and accept an allocation
of County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Funds for the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is
given to the Board of County Commissioners (the “County”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the County:
replacement of the Cedar Road
Bridge No. 229 over Doan Brook (the
“Improvement”).

1376

August 25, 2010
Section 2. That the City proposes
to cooperate with the County in the
cost of the Improvement to the
extent of funds received by an allocation from the County Motor Vehicle $5.00 License Tax Fund; and by
applying to the Board of County
Commissioners to use the License
Tax Fund for the Improvement.
However, the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of
any items included in the construction contract at the request of the
City, which are determined by the
County not eligible or made necessary by the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
the County necessary to complete
the planning and construction of the
Improvement, which agreements shall
contain terms and conditions that
the Director of Law determines shall
best protect the public interest.
Section 4. That on completion of
the Improvement, the City will:
(a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
(b) Maintain the Improvement
according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance;
(c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside stands, or other private installations within the limits of the
right-of-way;
(d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices under the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices under the provisions of Section
4511.11 and related sections of the
Revised Code;
(e) Follow and maintain post-construction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed
with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency; and
(f) Prohibit all parking within the
limits of the roadway which is a
part of the Improvement under Section 4511.66 of the Revised Code,
unless otherwise controlled by City
ordinance or resolution.
Section 5. (a) That all existing
streets
and
public
rights-of-way
within the City that are necessary
for the Improvement shall be made
available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for
the Improvement the County will
arrange for its acquisition.
(c) That the County shall continue to maintain the structural elements of any bridge (defined as a
structure with a span of twenty (20)
feet or greater) within the limits of
the Improvement under applicable
sections of the Revised Code.
(d) That the street within the limits of the Improvement is designated a through highway within the
meaning of division (F) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code.
(e) That arrangements have been
or will be made with and agreements obtained from all utility companies whose lines or structures will
be affected by the Improvement.
That the companies have agreed to
make
any
and
all
necessary
rearrangements in such manner as
to be clear of any construction

August 25, 2010
called for by the plans for the
Improvement. That the companies
have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City.
(f) That the City, at its own
expense, shall make all rearrangements of water mains, service lines,
fire hydrants, valve boxes, sanitary
sewers, or other City-owned utilities
and appurtenances which do not
comply with the provisions of ODOT
Directive No. 28-A, whether inside or
outside the corporate limits of the
City, as may be necessary to conform to the Improvement.
(g) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of
governmentally-owned utility facilities which come within the provisions of ODOT Directive No. 28-A to
the same extent that it participates
in the other costs of the Improvement, provided that such participation will not extend to additions or
betterments of existing facilities.
(h) That the construction, reconstruction, and rearrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the Improvement, and all backfilling of trenches
made necessary by utility rearrangement shall be performed under the
provisions of the ODOT Construction
and Material Specifications.
(i) If applicable, that stop signs
affecting the movement of traffic on
any street within the limits of the
Improvement shall be removed and
no stop signs will be erected except
intersections
with
another
at
through highway where traffic does
not warrant the installation of a
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-Way Stop” as
provided in the aforesaid manual
are met.
(j) That no rule or regulation may
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded.
Section 6. That this Council requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the County
concerning the financing of the Improvement, which agreement shall
contain without limitation terms
substantially similar to the following:
(a) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications for the
Improvement, including necessary
engineering reports, under current
County standards for construction of
County roads and bridges.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction contract.
(c) That if, by ordinance of this
Council, the City requests the County, to include in the Improvement
the construction of sanitary sewers,
water lines, sewers for drainage of
the area surrounding the Improvement, sidewalks, alternate bid items
or other items that are in addition
to those now existing in the plans
for the Improvement and not provided for elsewhere in the agreement, the County will do so, provid-

The City Record
ed that the construction of the additional items are approved by the
County and the City, and provided
further that the City agrees to pay
or cause to be paid the cost of the
additional construction, the cost of
preliminary and design engineering,
and construction supervision.
(d) That the City agrees to participate with the County in the cost
of the Improvement by an allocation
from the County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Fund to pay the County portion of the Improvement.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to apply to
the County for an allocation from the
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
Fund to pay the County portion of
the Improvement, and to enter into
one or more agreements with the
County as are necessary to finance
the Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply to the County for approval to
use County Motor Vehicle License
Tax funds to pay for the Improvement, to accept the funds and to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 10. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this ordinance immediately on its taking effect, and it
shall become the basis for proceeding with the Improvement.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 697-10.
By Council Members Miller, Mitchell
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 551.111 and 551.99 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by various
sections,
relating
to
prohibiting
excessively large set outs of waste
for collection and penalties, and to
supplement the Codified Ordinances
by enacting new Section 551.991,
relating to the establishment of a
civil enforcement program for waste
disposal infractions and to authorize
the issuance of tickets to the responsible
parties,
and
new
Section
551.041, relating to recycling.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 551.111
and 551.99 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02,
passed February 3, 2003 and Ordinance No. 1199-2000, passed October
30, 2000, are amended to read as follows:

1377

83
Section 551.111 Setting out an excessively large quantity of waste for
collection
(a) Offense. No person shall set
out for collection on a parcel’s tree
lawn or other designated place for
collection a quantity of solid waste
exceeding 2 cubic yards in volume
including special waste, if any, as
described in Section 551.05.
(b)
Applicability. The offense
established in division (a) is applicable without regard to whether the
person who sets out waste contrary
to its provisions:
(1) sets the waste out due to an
eviction, a house or garage cleanout, or for any other reason;
(2) uses or intends to use a public or private vendor or entity for its
disposal;
(3) sets out the waste for the purpose of staging it for eventual disposal.
(c) Penalty. Any person who violates this section is liable for the
civil infraction established under
Section 551.991 and is guilty of a
special misdemeanor for which the
maximum penalty shall be $250.00.
Section 551.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates any provision of the following sections is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor:
551.021 Waste Containers Used for
Commercial Solid Waste
551.06 Responsibility to Provide
Containers and Location of Containers
551.07 Wrapping and Storage of
Garbage
551.08 Scattering Solid Waste
551.09 Public Solid Waste Containers
551.10, div. (a) Commercial Waste
Disposal
551.14 Deposit of Dead Animals
and Offensive Substances
551.15, div. (a) Removal of Dead
Animals
551.17 Manure and Fertilizer
551.23 Cleaning Vehicles
551.28 Persons Prohibited from City
Waste Facilities
551.04, divs. (a) through (f) Setting Out Containers
551.081 Scavenging of Recyclable
Materials Prohibited
551.082, div. (a) Scavenging of
Solid Waste
551.18 Vehicles Containing Solid
Wastes
551.24 Vehicles and Boats with
Offensive Lading
551.25 Parking Vehicles
The above listed minor misdemeanors may be enforced by the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
(b) Whoever violates any provision of Section 551.19 or division (a)
of Section 551.351 shall be fined one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(c) Whoever violates any provision of division (c) of Section 551.16,
Sections 551.22 or 551.31 shall be
fined two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) or imprisoned for up to
thirty days, or both, for the first
offense, and five hundred dollars
($500.00) or imprisoned for up to
sixty days, or both, for each subsequent offense.
(d) Whoever violates any provision of Sections 551.12 or 551.27 shall
be
fined
one
hundred
dollars
($100.00) for the first offense and
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
or imprisoned for up to thirty days,
or both, for each subsequent offense.
(e) Whoever violates any provision of division (b) of Section 551.26

84
shall be fined one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and shall be imprisoned
for not less than sixty days and not
more than six months.
(f) Whoever violates any provision of division (c) of Section 551.26
shall be fined not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and not
more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not
more than six months, or both.
(g) Notwithstanding any other
provision of these Codified Ordinances, no part of a penalty imposed
under this section shall in any case
be suspended or otherwise reduced.
Section 2. That existing Sections
551.111 and 551.99 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 239302, passed February 3, 2003 and Ordinance No. 1199-2000, passed October
30, 2000, are repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 551.041 and 551.991 to read as
follows:
Section 551.041 Infractions Related
to Automated Waste Collection and
Curbside Recycling
Findings.
It is essential to the success of the
automated waste collection and curbside recycling program described in
division (b) that waste set out for collection is placed in the correct container for type of waste involved.
If the correct container is not
used, it increases both the labor and
disposal costs for the waste. If recyclable materials become contaminated by regular household waste, then
they must be disposed of as regular
solid waste, which is more costly
than treating them as recyclables. If
the regular household waste container is used for the disposal of
recyclable materials, then the economic and environmental benefits of
recycling are not realized.
To achieve the goals of the program it is necessary that all citizens
use the container intended for disposal of the type of waste involved
and avoid all mixing of recyclable
materials and regular household
waste.
(a) No person shall do any of the
following at any parcel included in
the automated waste collection and
curbside recycling program described
in division (b):
(1) Set out for collection the container
designated
for
recyclable
materials if its contents exceed 2%
regular household waste by volume.
(2) Set out for collection the container designated for regular household waste if its contents exceed
10% recyclable materials by volume.
(3) Set out for collection any regular household waste in any container or bag other than the container designated for regular household waste for use in the automated waste collection program.
It is not a violation of this division to set out for collection at any
parcel included in the program
described in division (b) special
waste set out in accordance with
Section 551.05 or recyclable materials placed out in addition to recyclable materials contained in the
container designated for recyclable
materials, provided that they are
prepared for disposal in accordance
with this chapter and any rules or
regulations issued under it.
Nothing in this section shall be
construed as abrogating or limiting
any other section of these Codified
Ordinances including without limi-

The City Record
tation the prohibition on setting out
an excessively large quantity of
waste for collection as proscribed by
Section 551.111.
(b) The offenses established in
division (a) pertain to any parcel
that is included in the automated
waste collection and curbside recycling program in which the waste is
collected by means of a truck
equipped with mechanical arms. The
City will distribute two containers
to each household in the program,
one designated for regular household waste, and the other designated for recyclable materials.
(c) As use in this section:
(1) “Recyclable materials” means
glass, metal cans, plastic bottles
mixed paper, and cardboard that are
prepared for collection in accordance with this chapter and the
rules and regulations issued under
it.
(2) “Regular household waste”
means waste generated in ordinary
residential
uses
excluding
recyclable materials, hazardous waste
and any waste excluded from being
placed out for curbside collection by
law, rule or regulation.
Section 551.991 Civil Infractions
(a)
enforcement
system
Civil
established. The City of Cleveland
hereby adopts a civil enforcement
system for the infractions established by this section. This civil
enforcement system imposes monetary liability on the responsible parties as defined in division (m).
In addition to any other means of
enforcement provided for in these
Codified Ordinances, each of the following sections may be enforced
through the issuance of a ticket to
the responsible parties as defined in
division (m):
(1) Section 551.04, division (d),
relating to the early set out of
waste.
(2) Section 551.04, division (e),
relating to failing to remove a
waste container after collection.
(3) Section 551.111, division (a),
relating to excessively large quantity of waste for collection.
(4) Section 551.041, division (b),
relating to automated waste collection and recycling infractions.
Any person who violates any of
the foregoing prohibitions has committed an infraction for which liability is imposed by division (b)
upon the responsible parties as
defined in division (m).
(b) Liability imposed. Any person
who commits an infraction under
division (a), the parcel owner, and
any other person lawfully entitled to
possession of the parcel on which
the infraction occurred, whether
one-in-the-same person or different
persons, are jointly and severally
liable to the City of Cleveland in the
amounts established in divisions (f)
and (g).
(c) Noncriminal offense; no conviction. The infractions established
by this section are noncriminal.
The imposition of liability upon the
responsible parties under this section shall not be deemed a conviction for any purpose.
(d) Other costs and penalties not
abrogated. Nothing in this section
shall be construed as altering or limiting the effects of any other section
of these Codified Ordinances, the
criminal penalties imposed by any
such other section, or the ability of
a law enforcement officer to enforce
those sections.
(e) Tickets – service; contents. If
a
violation
of
division
(a)
is

1378

August 25, 2010
observed by an employee of the
Division of Waste Collection and
Disposal or any other City employee whose duties include the enforcement of this section, then the Director of Public Service shall cause the
responsible parties to be issued a
ticket. The ticket shall be served in
either of the following manners:
(1) by sending it via regular U.S.
mail, postage prepaid, to the address
at which the infraction was committed contrary to division (a).
(2) by personally serving it to a
responsible party as defined in division (m).
The date of mailing of the ticket
or the date of personal service,
whichever is applicable, shall be
deemed to be the date of issuance
of the ticket.
The ticket shall identify the occupant of the parcel, its owner, and
any other person lawfully entitled to
possession of the parcel as respondents. The ticket shall state that the
respondents may be responsible parties for the commission of a civil
infraction under this section. If the
mailing is unreturned, then it shall
establish that the respondents were
given actual or constructive notice
of the imposition of liability under
this section.
The
ticket
shall
inform
the
respondents of the procedure to file
an appeal and the time frame for filing it. It shall include a statement
to inform any responsible person as
defined in division (m) that if that
person fails to challenge the ticket,
then a default finding of civil liability may be imposed upon that person for the costs established in divisions (f) and (g).
The ticket may be in any format
that includes all of the elements
required by this section.
(f) Penalties established. The costs
imposed by this section upon the
responsible parties for the commission of an infraction contrary to
division (a) shall be assessed in
accordance
with
the
following
schedule:
Section

Civil Penalty

551.111, division (a) $250.00 if the
volume of waste
is more than 2
cubic yards but
less than 10
cubic yards.
$500.00 if the
volume of waste
is more than 10
cubic yards.
551.04, division (d)  $100.00
551.04, division (e)  $100.00
551.041, division (a) $100.00
The costs established by this section are imposed upon the responsible parties both as civil penalties
and to reimburse the City for a portion of the costs incurred by it in
the enforcement of infractions, and
for some infractions, the increased
costs of solid waste disposal.
(g) Late penalties. Late penalties
shall be assessed in accordance with
the following schedule:
(1) If the costs established in division (f) remain unpaid (20) days
after the ticket is issued or (20)
days after the conclusion of all
appeals, an additional $20.00 shall
be assessed; and
(2) If the costs established in division (f) remain unpaid (40) days

August 25, 2010
after the ticket is issued or (40)
days after the conclusion of all
appeals, an additional $40.00 shall
be added to the $20.00 assessed
under division (g)(1) for a total
additional penalty of $60.00 in such
a case.
(h) Appeals - timing. Any respondent or other person who is potentially liable for the costs imposed by
this section may appeal the imposition of liability to the Director of
Public Service or his or her designee
in the manner described in the ticket. The appeal shall be taken not
later than 20 days from the date of
Failure to
issuance of the ticket.
appeal the ticket or pay the costs
imposed within this time period
shall constitute a waiver of the
right to contest the ticket and shall
be considered an admission.
(i) Appeal - process. The Director
of Public Service shall establish an
administrative appeal process for
persons to appeal tickets issued
under this section. The administrative appeal process shall allow the
appellant the right to present appellant’s case in person and may allow
for evidence to be presented exparte. The strict rules of evidence
applicable to courts of law shall not
apply in any administrative hearing
or ex-parte review.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that an appellant is liable under this section for
the costs assessed, then the Director
shall dismiss the appeal and order
the appellant to pay the costs identified in the ticket.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that an appellant is liable under this section for
the costs assessed but that there are
reasons for the commission of the
infraction that mitigate the offense,
then the Director shall dismiss the
appeal and order the appellant to
pay the costs identified in the ticket, but may in the interest of equity reduce the costs assessed.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that the appellant is not liable under this section for the costs assessed, then the
Director shall dismiss the ticket and
grant the appeal.
(j) Appeal of the Director’s decision. Any person subject to an
adverse decision of the Director may
appeal that decision to the Board of
Zoning
Appeals.
The
notice
of
appeal shall be in writing and shall
be filed with the Board of Zoning
Appeals within ten (10) days of the
decision of the Director. The Board
shall approve, modify or annul the
finding from which the appeal is
taken.
(k) Collection. The costs imposed
by this section may be enforced and
collected by means of a civil action
or any other means provided for in
these Codified Ordinances or the
Revised Code.
(l) Rules and regulations. The
Director of Public Service may issue
rules and regulations to carry out
the provisions of these sections,
which shall be effective thirty (30)
days after their publication in the
City Record.
(m) Definitions. As used in this
section:
(1) “Director” means the Director
of Public Service and in the case of
appeals, the Director of Public Service or his or her designee.
(2) “Owner” or “parcel owner”
mean the person(s) shown in the
records of the county recorder as
having legal title to the parcel on
which someone has failed to adhere
to division (a).

The City Record
(3) “Person” includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership, and association.
[RC 1.59 (C)]
(4) “Responsible party” and “responsible parties” mean any person
who commits an infraction established by division (a), the parcel
owner, and any other person lawfully entitled to possession of the
parcel on which the infraction occurred, whether one-in-the-same person or different persons.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 698-10.
By Council Members Keane, Miller,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Fairview Hospital
to encroach into the public right-ofway beneath Lorain Avenue west of
West 179th Street by installing,
using, and maintaining 2 communication duct banks, each containing
1 set of 6-4 inch diameter PVC bundles located between the Moll Cancer Center and Fairview Hospital’s
proposed new ED/ICU building.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Fairview Hospital, 18101
Lorain Avenue Cleveland Ohio 44111
(“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way beneath Lorain
Avenue west of West 179th Street
by installing, using, and maintaining 2 communication duct banks,
each containing 1 set of 6-4 inch
diameter PVC bundles located between the Moll Cancer Center and
Fairview Hospital’s proposed new
ED/ICU building, at the following
locations:
Encroachment Area 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
the Original Rockport Township Section No. 13, being more definitely
described as follows;
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Lorain Avenue (70
feet wide) and the centerline of
West 179th Street (40 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of
Lorain Avenue North 63° - 12' - 49"
West, 232.90 feet to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING for the encroachment area herein described;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
South 26° - 02' - 40" West, 30.00 feet to
the southerly right-of-way of Lorain
Avenue;
Thence, along said southerly rightof-way, North 63° - 12' - 49" West,
15.00 feet;
Thence, leaving said southerly
right of way, North 26° - 02' - 40"
East, 70.01 feet to the northerly
right of way of Lorain Avenue;

1379

85
Thence, along said northerly rightof-way, South 63° - 12' - 49" East,
15.00 feet;
Thence, leaving said northerly
right of way, South 26° - 02' - 40"
West, 40.00 feet to the point of
beginning.
Containing within said bounds
0.0241 acres (1,050 square feet) of
land.
Encroachment Area 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
the Original Rockport Township
Section No. 13, being more definitely described as follows;
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Lorain Avenue (70
feet wide) and the centerline of
West 179th Street (40 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of
Lorain Avenue North 63° - 12' - 49"
West, 268.52 feet to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING for the encroachment area herein described;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
South 13° - 27' - 55" West, 30.83 feet
to the southerly right of way of
Lorain Avenue;
Thence, along said southerly rightof-way, North 63° - 12' - 49" West,
15.41 feet;
Thence, leaving said southerly
right of way, North 13° - 27' - 55"
East, 71.94 feet to the northerly
right of way of Lorain Avenue;
Thence, along said northerly rightof-way, South 63°12°49” East, 15.41
feet;
Thence, leaving said northerly
right of way, South 13° - 27' - 55"
West, 41.11 feet to the point of
beginning.
Containing within said bounds
0.0248 acres (1,079 square feet) of
land.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director
of
Law,
Permittee
has
properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010

The City Record

86

August 25, 2010

Ord. No. 708-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli, Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 3105.25, 3105.26, and 3105.28 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by various ordinances, relating to permit, inspection, certificate, plan examination, and
carnival and festival fee schedules, for the Department of Building and Housing.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 3105.25, as amended by Ordinance No. 617-06, passed May 8, 2006, and
Sections 3105.26, and 3105.28, as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2002,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 3105.25 Schedule of Permit Fees
When fees are calculated on an estimated construction or repair cost, the value of work shall include all
structural, electrical, plumbing and HVAC, interior finish, normal site preparation including excavation and backfill, overhead and profit. Architectural/Engineering fees, costs of land and off-site costs need not be included.
The value estimate of the proposed work may be determined by the Department of Building and Housing in
accordance with generally accepted methods of estimating as prescribed by BOCA or the R.S. Means Cost Data
Service that is effective on the date application is made for the permit.
NOTE: Other permit fees, such as for electrical, plumbing, HVAC, elevators and plan processing are separate.
Except for permit fees for work performed on one, two, three family dwellings, their accessory structures and
other miscellaneous items listed in division (E) of Section 3781.10 of the Revised Code, the permit fees herein
include the required surcharge pursuant to division (E) of Section 3781.10 of the Revised Code.
For permit and plan examination fees for work performed on one, two, or three-family dwellings or their
accessory structures, the permit fees do not include the required one-percent (1%) surcharge. For permits issued
for that work, the required surcharge shall be calculated on the final cost of each permit issued and shall be
separately itemized.
Minimum Fee
(a)  One-Family, Two-Family, or Three-Family Dwelling Houses
(1)  New buildings and additions, or parts of same:
$10.00 for each $1,000 or fraction of estimated cost

$150.00

(2)  Alterations and repairs: $5.00 for each $1,000
or fraction of estimated cost

$  30.00

(b)  Buildings or Structures as Regulated by the Ohio Building Code
(1)  New buildings or structures, additions to
existing buildings or structures, and first tenants’ space
buildouts in new construction: $12.00 for each $1,000
or fraction of estimated cost less than $1,000,000

$300.00

From $1,000,001 up, $12,000 plus $7.00 for each
$1,000 or fraction of estimated cost above $1,000,000
(2)  Alterations or repairs to existing buildings
or structures: $15.00 for each $1,000 or fraction thereof
of estimated cost less than $1,000,000

$150.00

From $1,000,001 up, $15,000 plus $11.00 for each
$1,000 or fraction of estimated cost above $1,000,000
(c)  Miscellaneous Buildings/Structures
(1)  Private garages, tool sheds, residential
antennas, and other accessory structures or buildings

$  50.00

(2)  Fences, guardrails or barriers for One, Two or Three Family

$  50.00

(3)  Fences, guardrails or barriers for Commercial $15.00 per $1,000
or fraction thereof of estimated cost

$150.00

(4)  Swimming pools (private/residential)

$  50.00

(5)  Effective boarding pending repairs of rehabilitation

$  50.00

(d)  Demolition or Removal of Buildings or Structures (Consult Section 3105.16(C))
(1)  For one-family, two-family, or three-family dwelling houses
or accessory structures: $10.00 for each 1,000 square feet
or fraction of floor area (excluding basement floor
or cellar floor areas)

1380

$  50.00

The City Record

August 25, 2010

(2)  For buildings and structures as regulated by the Ohio Building Code
$15.00 for each 1000 square feet or fraction of floor area

87
$300.00

(e)  Moving of Building or Structures
(1)  One, two or three-family dwellings
(2)  Other than (e)(1) above

$300.00
$600.00

(f)  Outdoor Signs and Display Structures; Other Wall Signs
for Which a Permit is Required: $12.00 for each $1,000 or fraction
of estimated cost

$  50.00

(g) Marquees, Awnings and Canopies: $12.00 for each
$1,000 or fraction of estimated cost

$  50.00

(h) Temporary Tents
(1)  120 square feet or less
(2)  Over 120 square feet

No charge
$  75.00 each

No fee shall be charged for tents used in conjunction with a funeral service or for religious organizations which
are utilizing tents for temporary purposes not to exceed two weeks.
(i)  Zoning Fees (Shall be added to applicable Building Permits as follows):
(1)  Commercial and Multi-Family and Parking Lots
(2)  Temporary Uses
(3)  Signs, Fences and Appurtenant Structures

$150.00
$  30.00
$  20.00

(j)  Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning, and Refrigeration
(1)  One, two, and three-family dwellings: The minimum
fee for any permit shall be:

$  50.00

A.  Installation of each central heating
and/or air conditioning system(s); or

$  50.00

B.  Repairs, alterations, or extensions of central
heating and/or air conditioning systems; or

$  50.00

C.  Installation of each fuel-fired unit heater,
space heater, or decorative appliance; or

$  50.00

D.  Installation of each solid fuel burning device;
fireplace, insert, woodburning stove/oven, etc.

$  50.00

(2)  For buildings and structures as regulated by the Ohio
Building Code: The minimum fee for any permit shall be:

$  50.00

A.  Installation of each central heating, ventilation,
and/or air conditioning unit (equipment)

$  50.00

B.  Installation of each duct heater or reheat coil

$  30.00

C.  Installation of each fuel-fired unit heater,
space heater, or decorative appliance

$  30.00

D.  Installation of steam or hot water radiation
devices; each floor or level

$  30.00

E.  Installation of each solid-fuel burning device;
fireplace, insert, woodburning stove/oven, etc.

$  30.00

F.  Installation of fuel-gas piping; for each 100
lineal feet or fraction

$  13.00

G.  Installation of duct work, V.A.V. boxes,
exhaust fans, exhaust hoods, fire or volume dampers,
and other connecting appurtenances: For each $1,000
valuation or fraction of job cost (Material + Labor)

$  13.00

(3)  Installation of Refrigeration Systems: For each new
or altered refrigeration system as per following rated tons of
refrigeration (1 ton = 12,000 B.T.U.):
A.

Up to 25 tons capacity

B.

Over 25 tons capacity

$  50.00
$100.00

1381

The City Record

88
C.

For each walk-in cooler, freezer, or
dairy/deli case refrigeration system

August 25, 2010
$  50.00

(4)  Repairs and/or alterations of existing equipment or systems
(k) Plumbing Fixtures, Appliances and Piping:
Note: Use (1), (2), and (3) below to calculate fee:
The minimum fee for any permit shall be:
(1)  For the installation of each plumbing fixture,
appliance or device such as water closets, urinals, bathtubs or
showers, sinks, drinking fountains, dishwashers, laundry trays,
clothes washers, floor drains, roof drains, hot water heating
devices, interceptors, sump pumps, air conditioning units,
catch basins, area drains, manholes and other similar
equipment, or fixtures

$  50.00

$  50.00

$    8.00 each

(2)  For the installation of piping for plumbing systems:
A.  Gas piping — For each 100 lineal feet or fraction

$  13.00

B.  Drains, waste piping from plumbing
Fixtures — for each 100 lineal feet or fraction

$  13.00

C.  Storm and/or foundation drains/sewers —
for each 100 lineal feet or fraction

$  13.00

D.  Sanitary drains/sewers — for each 100
lineal feet or fraction

$  13.00

E.  Water distribution piping — for each 100
lineal feet or fraction

$  13.00

F.  Connection to potable water line for non-potable uses
such as irrigation, fire suppression system, etc.

$  50.00

(3)  For the following miscellaneous:
A.  Repairs to existing plumbing fixtures and/or systems

$  50.00

(l) Electric Wiring and Equipment: Note: Use (1) or (2) below
to calculate fee; the minimum fee for any permit shall be:

$  50.00

(1)  For new construction additions, alterations to
existing buildings: For each 1000 square feet or part

$  50.00

(2)  For each item as follows:
A.  Temporary lighting and/or power
installations, or low voltage wiring systems (CATV
cable, fire alarm devices, computer devices, data
communication and other similar equipment)

$  50.00

B.  Signs: Business I.D., advertisement, and directional, etc.:
1.  For the first electrical sign
2.  Add for each additional electric
sign installed at the same time
C.  Amusement rides and devices: each

$  50.00
$  30.00
$  30.00

Note: Also see Section 3105.29 — Festival and Carnival
Permit Fees for Charitable Organizations
D.  Repairs to existing electrical systems
(3)  Blanket electrical permit for each year for each premises

$  50.00
$200.00

(m) Elevators, Powered Lifts, and Moving Walks
(1)  To install a freight or passenger elevator
$11.00 per $1000 or fraction thereof of estimated cost

$350.00

(2)  For each installation of moving stairways or
moving walks, any manhoists, special elevators, or stage or
orchestra lifts included under Section 3141.04

$350.00

1382

The City Record

August 25, 2010

89

(3)  Installation of any power operated dumbwaiter or conveyor

$200.00

(4)  Installation of any wheelchair lift or stair climber

$  75.00

(5)  Installation of any amusement device to convey
persons in any direction as a form of amusement

$  50.00

(6)  Any alteration or repair for which a permit is
required under Section 3141.03 for divisions (m)(1) through
(m)(5) above

$100.00

Section 3105.26

Schedule of Inspection Fees

There shall be no separate inspection fees except as provided in Section 3105.27 and this section:
(a)  Special Inspections.
(1)  Whenever an inspection has been requested and upon inspection the work is not found to be ready for
inspection, or where the address given in the application for permit is faulty or inaccurate, there shall be charged
a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each inspection.
(2)  For inspections required outside of regular working hours (special events, witness testing of special equipment, etc.) the fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(3)  Whenever a special inspection, not a routine inspection of work being done under a permit, is requested,
there shall be an inspection fee as follows:
Dwelling units at $20.00, minimum $50.00
Other structures at $60.00 per story
(4)  Whenever an inspection is made after the compliance date stated on a Notice of Violation of the Building
Code, the Housing Code or the Zoning Code or after a compliance date determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to determine whether the violation has been remedied and the violation has not been remedied, or an additional permit is obtained for work previously permitted and the original permit has expired or was appropriately voided, there shall be charged a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each inspection, except that this fee
shall not apply to one-family and two-family owner-occupied dwelling structures.
(b) Annual Building Inspections:
(1) Eating Places
(2) Drinking Places
(3) Annual Inspections
under Licensing Requirement

$65.00 per occupancy
$65.00 per occupancy
$65.00 per occupancy

(c) Late fee, for work started prior to permit issuance:
(1) Within 72 hours of notification
(2) After 72 hours

Min $100.00 + 25% of required permit fee
Min $200.00 + 25 % of required permit fee

(d) Payment of charges for inspections enumerated above shall be made before any additional permits will be
issued to the permit holder.
Section 3105.28

Plan Examination Fee Schedule

The plan examination fee is payable at the time the plans are submitted and is based on the floor area in
square feet. If plans are submitted more than one time, or if plans are revised after permit issuance, an additional plan examination fee will be charged.
(a) A fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) per 1,000 square foot or fraction of that shall be charged for any plan
examined under this section.
(b) A fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be charged for any plan which is under 1,000 square foot. Projects
such as parking lots, signs, or fences which have no floor area shall be charged this minimum fee.
(c) A fee of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be charged for all site development reviews.
Section 2. That the following existing sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 3105.25, as amended by Ordinance No. 617-06, passed May 8, 2006, and
Sections 3105.26, 3105.27, and 3105.28, as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2002,
are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

1383

90
Ord. No. 806-10.
By Council Members Keane, Mitchell
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances by
enacting new Section 571.90 relating
to banner towing operations; fee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 571.90 to read as follows:
Section 571.90
Banner Towing
Operations; Fee
(a) The Commissioner of Burke
Lakefront Airport is authorized to
charge and collect fees for banner
towing operations at Burke Lakefront Airport. The banner tow operator will pay a non-refundable deposit for each month they conduct
their operation. Once the operator
matches their deposit amount against
the banners towed for that month, a
per banner charge will then assessed until such time as the next
monthly non-refundable deposit is
due. The monthly deposit and the
per-banner fee authorized shall be
fixed by the Commissioner of Burke
Lakefront Airport and shall be approved by the Board of Control. The
fees shall be reviewed and set annually by the Board of Control.
(b) All landing fees associated
with the operation will be assessed.
(c) The Commissioner of Burke
Lakefront Airport shall enter into
annual permit agreements with banner tow operators before the operators conduct their operations.
(d) The Commissioner of Burke
Lakefront Airport is authorized to
issue further regulations deemed
necessary to protect Airport aircraft
using the Airport and the general
public. The regulations shall become
effective ten (10) days after publication in the City Record.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 829-10.
By Mayor Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of LED streetlights, LED
fluorescent tube replacements, LED
bulbs, and LED traffic lights as
specified for a term of up to 10
years for the various departments of
City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make a
written requirement contract under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for

The City Record
the requirements for a term of up to
10 years for the various departments
of City government of the necessary
items of LED streetlights, LED fluorescent tube replacements, LED
bulbs, and LED traffic lights (“LED
products”) that 1) have a UL listing
and have completed LM 79 testing
to confirm the products’ conformance to City standards prior to
being furnished to the City; 2) have
completed LM 80 testing to confirm
the products’ conformance to City
standards within 24 months after
the first LED products are furnished
to the City; 3) are lead-free and
meet the Restriction of the Use of
Certain Hazardous Substances in
Electrical and Electronic Equipment
Regulations (“RoHS”); 4) are designed to fit the City’s existing fixtures without modification other
than wiring reconfiguration, with
the exception of LED street lights
which shall be designed to fit the
City’s existing street light arms
without modification of the arms or
modification of the maintenance
processes and shall in other respects
meet the City’s street light specifications; 5) are, starting no later
than 18 months after execution of
the contract, assembled and distributed from the contractor’s facility
located in Cleveland and used to
supply the LED products to the City
under the contract throughout the
term; 6) are, starting no later than
36 months after execution of the
contract, manufactured at one or
more facilities located and maintained in Cleveland throughout the
remainder of the contract term; 7)
are assembled, distributed and manufactured at one or more of its
Cleveland facilities that (a) includes, by no later than 60 months
after execution of the contract, a
research and development function
within its Cleveland facility which
is maintained in Cleveland throughout the remainder of the contract
term, (b) employs within 60 months
after execution of the contract and
maintains in employment for the
remainder of the contract term a
minimum of 350 new jobs, and (c)
employs Cleveland residents as at
least 30% of the total number of
Ohio residents employed in the
workforce in each year of the contract; and 8) are warranted for full
replacement if the furnished products fail at any time during the
term to meet the contract specifications, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the various
departments of City government.
The contract shall provide that
the contractor shall 1) comply with
the
Cleveland
Fair
Employment
Law, Chapter 189 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as a “Covered Employer” as that
term is defined in the law; 2) comply with the CSB, MBE, and FBE
subcontractor
participation
goals
established by the City’s Office of
Equal Opportunity (“OEO”) under
Chapter 187 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
like contracts in any contract the
contractor enters into (a) for the
construction, rehabilitation, improvement, alteration, conversion, extension, demolition or repair of the contractor’s Cleveland facilities, and
(b) with suppliers and subcontractors employed by the contractor in
the performance of its obligations to
supply LED products; 3) require its
contractors under 2(a) of this paragraph to employ City of Cleveland
residents to perform 20% of the

1384

August 25, 2010
total “Construction Worker Hours”
as that term is defined in Section
188.01 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976; 4) use, to the
extent practicable, ”Local Producers,” “Local-Food Purchasers” and
“Local Sustainable Businesses” as
defined in Section 187A.01 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, in contracts for goods
and services for contractor’s Cleveland facilities, increase the number
of Local Producers, Local-Food Purchasers and Local Sustainable Businesses in proportion to its decrease
in use of component parts obtained
outside Cleveland, and purchase a
minimum of 25% of component parts
from Local Producers meeting the
contractor’s specifications within 5
years after the contract execution
date; 5) enter into a Workforce Development Agreement under which,
among other things, the contractor
shall notify the City of job openings
at contractor’s Cleveland facilities,
request referrals of potential job
candidates for the job openings
from the City’s workforce agencies,
give first consideration to hiring
candidates referred by those agencies, and provide reasonable feedback
regarding
the
status
and
results of the referrals; and 6) pay
all royalties, license, or other intellectual property fees required in
connection with its products and
processes and shall hold and save
the City and its officers, agents, servants, and employees harmless from
liability of any nature or kind,
including costs and expenses, for or
on account of any patented or
unpatented invention, process, article, or appliance manufactured or
used in the performance of the contract, including but not limited to
the use by the City, and defend at
its own cost all suits or claims for
infringement of any patent, license,
or other intellectual property right.
The contract shall further provide
that 1) the term during which the
City is obligated to purchase LED
products shall begin upon the contractor filling the City’s first order
with products assembled and distributed from its Cleveland facilities; 2) the City may provide upgraded requirements for LED products
as required to meet technological
advancements during the term of
the contract; 3) so long as the contractor’s unit price for any LED
product is at or below that of other
providers for a like product, as
determined annually by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, the City shall purchase that
LED product from the contractor
during the term of the contract; 4)
if any LED product is available at
a lower cost from another firm and
the contractor fails to meet that
lower cost, the City shall have the
right to purchase the lower-priced
product(s) from another supplier;
and 5) if the contractor cannot meet
the quantity or quality requirements
of the City for any LED product, the
City shall have the right to purchase that LED product from another supplier. The Director Finance
shall provide an annual report to
Cleveland City Council regarding
the evaluation of product pricing by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies and the City’s procurement
under the contract.
The contract shall further provide
that 1) the contractor is required to
develop LED products that meet
Energy Star Standards and other
national LED standards as those
standards may be promulgated and

August 25, 2010
adopted by the lighting industry
from time to time during the contract term (“Standards”) and to
actively
work
toward
achieving
LED products that meet the Standards; 2) if the contractor achieves
any LED products that meet the
Standards, the City shall have the
right to purchase that product from
the contractor at or below the price
of another like LED product that
meet the Standards; 3) if the contractor offers a product meeting the
Standards, but a like LED product
is available from another supplier at
a lower price, and the contractor
does not at least meet the lower
price, the City may purchase that
product meeting the Standards from
the other supplier; and 4) if the City
determines that a LED product
meeting the Standards is available
for purchase in the marketplace and
the contractor does not have a like
LED product, the City shall have the
right to purchase the LED product(s) meeting the Standards from
another supplier.
Notwithstanding
any
Codified
Ordinance to the contrary, 1) each
bid shall be accompanied by a bid
bond signed by a surety company
authorized to do business in Ohio, or
by a cashier’s check or certified
check on a solvent bank, which
bond or check shall be five percent
(5%) of the amount of the bid for
the estimated purchases during the
first term year of the contract and
shall be given as security that if its
bid is accepted, the bidder will enter
into a contract and properly secure
its performance; and 2) upon execution of the contract, the contractor
shall furnish a performance bond or
other irrevocable security acceptable to the Director of Law in an
amount equal to at least twenty-five
percent (25%) of the bid amount for
the City’s estimated purchases during the first term year of the contract and shall maintain a performance bond or security in that
amount in effect during each term
year of the contract.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of the initial purchase,
which
purchase,
together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
requisition against the contract or
contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 3. That the authority to
enter into contract under this ordinance shall expire eighteen months
after the effective date of this ordinance, excluding any period of time
that the City is prevented from proceeding with competitive bidding or
entering into a contract for LED
products under this ordinance for
any reason outside of the control of
the City, its officers or employees.
If the City is prevented from proceeding with competitive bidding or
enter into a contract for LED products under this ordinance due to a
reason outside the control of the
City, its officers or employees, the
Director of Finance shall notify
Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective September 17, 2010.

Ord. No. 835-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Mitchell,
Zone,
Pruitt,
Sweeney,
Brady and Polensek (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3103.091 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1112-A-07,
passed June 2, 2008, relating to utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe
structures.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3103.091 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1112-A-07, passed June 2,
2008. is amended to read as follows:
Section 3103.091
Utility Shut-Off
in Vacant and Unsafe Structures
(a) Any structure determined by
the Director of Building and Housing to be vacant and unsafe as
defined in Section 3103.09 and for
which utility service, including gas,
electric and water, or other utility
as identified by the Director of
Building and Housing, has not been
shut-off poses an immediate risk of
harm from explosion, fire, or flooding and is therefore declared to be
a nuisance which shall be abated by
shut-off of all utility service.
(b) When notified by the Director
or his designee, no Utility shall fail
to shut-off its service to any vacant
and unsafe structure within ten (10)
calendar days of receipt of written
notice. Notice shall be served on the
Utility by facsimile, e-mail, or certified mail. The handing of the notice
to the person designated to receive
the notice shall be deemed actual
notice and is legal and valid service
and no other form of service is necessary. It shall be the responsibility
of the Utility to designate a person
to receive the notice provided for in
this section. Beginning June 1, 2008,
and as often as necessary to ensure
that the City has current information, the Utility shall provide to the
Director the name, address, telephone number, fax number, and email address of the person designated to receive City notices.
(c) No later than two business
days following the utility service
shut-off, the Utility shall notify the
Director of the date and time that
the Utility shut-off the utility service. The notice will be in the form
requested by the Director.
(d) For purposes of this section:
(1) “Utility” means any company,
in the business of providing electrical, water, gas, telephone, cable, or
other utility service to a building or
structure.
(2) “Vacant” means that no person
actually and legally resides in any
part of the structure or that no person conducts a lawful business in
any part of the structure.
(3) “Shut-off” means to stop the
flow of gas, electricity, water or
other utility service from entering
the premises. For underground utilities, shut-off shall be accomplished
by disconnecting the service at the
street and for overhead utilities, disconnection shall be at the pole.

1385

91
(e) In the event of any actual or
threatened violation of this section
or an emergency situation, the
Director of Law, in addition to other
remedies provided by law, may institute proper suit in equity or at law
to prevent or terminate such violation or remedy such situation.
(f) The Director may promulgate
rules and regulations to enforce this
section.
Section 2. That existing Section
3103.091 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 1112-A-07, passed
June 2, 2008. is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 867-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of office supplies, furniture, and equipment for
the various divisions of City government, for a period of two years with
two one-year options to renew, the
first of which is exercisable through
additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the necessary items of office supplies, furniture, and equipment in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term,
for the term of two years, with two
one-year options to renew, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the various divisions of City government. The first of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative
authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second
of the one-year options to renew
may be exercisable at the option of
the Director of Finance, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which pur-

92
chase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (Request
No. RQN 1505, RL 2010-40)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangewith
other
governmental
ments
agencies. The Director of Finance
may sign all documents that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 868-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of hand tools
and hand-held power tools, for the
various divisions of City government, for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the term of two years for the necessary items of hand tools and handheld power tools in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the various
divisions of City government. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (Request
No. RQN 1505, RL 2010-42)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made
through
cooperative
arrangements with other governmental
agencies.
The
Director
of

The City Record
Finance may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 869-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of rigging
services, and labor, materials, and
services needed to maintain, repair,
or
refurbish
material
handling
equipment, including training if
needed; and authorizing the rental
of material handling equipment,
cranes, and other heavy equipment,
including training if needed, for the
Divisions of Water, Cleveland Public Power, and Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities,
for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a two year period of
the necessary items of rigging services, and labor, materials, and services needed to maintain, repair, or
refurbish material handling equipment, including training if needed,
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Divisions of Water,
Cleveland Public Power, and Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a two year period of
the necessary items of the rental of
material
handling
equipment,
cranes, and other heavy equipment,
including training if needed, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Divisions of Water,
Cleveland Public Power, and Water

1386

August 25, 2010
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase or procurement, which purchase and procurement, together with all later purchases and procurements, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
requisition against the contract or
contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (Request RQN 2002 RL
2010-39)
Section 4. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made
through
cooperative
arrangements with other governmental agencies. The Director of Public
Utilities may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 870-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of safety equipment, for the
Divisions of Water, Cleveland Public Power and Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities,
for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a two year period of
the necessary items of various types
of safety equipment needed to comply with OSHA regulations and for
general safety standards, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Divisions of Water,
Cleveland Public Power and Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single

August 25, 2010
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (Request
No. RQN 2002, RL 2010-43)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made
through
cooperative
arrangements with other governmental agencies. The Director of Public Utilities may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 871-10
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with High Line Corporation dba
Casnet for professional services necessary to maintain Onbase hardware, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with High Line Corporation dba
Casnet for professional services necessary to maintain Onbase hardware
on the basis of its proposal dated
June 15, 2009 and the Hardware
Maintenance
Schedule
A
dated
November 5, 2009, in the total sum
of $63,727.58, for the Department of
Public Utilities. The contract or contracts shall be paid from Fund No.
52 SF 001, Request No. RQS 2002, RL
2010-103.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

The City Record
Ord. No. 872-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. 68519 with Tyco Simplex-Grinnell to provide for labor
and materials necessary to maintain, repair, and expand the computerized facility management system, and labor if necessary, for the
Department of Port Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 274-08, passed March
31, 2008, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. 68519 with
Tyco Simplex-Grinnell to provide for
labor and materials necessary to
maintain, repair, and expand the
computerized facility management
system, and labor if necessary, for
the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 274-08
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 68519 for an additional
year in the approximate amount of
$500,000 with Tyco Simplex-Grinnell
for the requirements for an additional year of labor and materials
necessary to maintain, repair, and
expand the computerized facility
management system, and labor if
necessary, for the Department of
Port Control. This ordinance constithe
additional
legislative
tutes
authority required by Ordinance No.
274-08 to exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 873-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services needed for
managing and maintaining buildings under the control of the Department of Community Development for
a period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to make one or more written
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for each or all of the following items: materials, equipment,
supplies, and services needed for
managing and maintaining buildings eligible under the Community

1387

93
Development Block Grant regulations under the control of the
Department of Community Development to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis, for the Department
of Community Development for a
period of one year.
Section 2. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Community Development may sign all documents that are necessary to make
the purchases, and may enter into
one or more contracts with the vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
not exceed $75,000 and shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 14 SF 034 and 14 SF
035, Request RQS 8006 RL 2010-122.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 875-10.
By Council Members Dow, Miller,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to the Rainey Institute to encroach into the public
right-of-way of East 55th Street by
installing, using, and maintaining
an entry marquee with masonry
piers.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to the Rainey Institute, 1705
East 55th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44103 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public right-of-way of East 55th
Street by installing, using, and
maintaining an entry marquee with
masonry piers, at the following location:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a parcel
of land lying within the right-of-way
of East 55th Street and lying adjacent to the westerly line of lands as
conveyed to the Eleanor B. Rainey
Institute, Inc. by deed as recorded
in AFN #200002240682 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and lying adjacent
to the westerly line of lands as conveyed to The Eleanor B. Rainey
Institute, Inc. by deed as recorded
in AFN #200002181044 of Cuyahoga
County Records and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the southerly line of Whittier Avenue (60 feet in width) and the easterly line of East 55th Street (100
feet in width) at the northwesterly
corner of said lands as conveyed to
The Eleanor B. Rainey Institute,
Inc. by deed as recorded in AFN
#200002240682 of Cuyahoga County

The City Record

94
Records; Thence along the easterly
line of East 55th Street and westerly line of said lands South 00
degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds West
a distance of 59.82 feet to the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BEGINNING for
the parcel described herein;
Course 1: Thence continuing along
the easterly line of East 55th Street
and the westerly line of said lands,
and continuing along the westerly
line of said lands as conveyed to
The Eleanor B. Rainey Institute,
Inc. by deed as recorded in AFN
#200002181044 of Cuyahoga County
Records, South 00 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds West a distance of
46.50 feet to the point of curvature
of a non-tangent curve;
Course 2: Thence along the arc of
a curve concave to the east, having
a radius of 102.50 feet, a central
angle of 26 degrees 13 minutes 20
seconds, the chord of which bears
North 00 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds East 46.50 feet, an arc distance

of 46.61 feet to the Principal Place
of Beginning according to an actual field survey by Christopher J.
Dempsey, Professional Surveyor No.
6914, Dempsey Surveying Company
dated May 07, 2010.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structures permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachments.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall

August 25, 2010
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly
indemnified
the
City
against any loss that may result
from the encroachments permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 877-10.
By Council Members Keane, Miller, Cleveland, and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to The City Mission to
encroach into the public right-of-way above Puritas Avenue with three banners to be attached to utility poles (by
separate permission of the poles’ owners).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council,
to The City Mission (“Permittee”), 5310 Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to encroach into the public rightof-way above Puritas Avenue by installing, using, and maintaining three banners to be attached to utility poles
(by separate permission of the poles’ owners), at the locations more fully described as follows:
LOCATION

POLE NUMBER

POLE OWNER

18140 Puritas Avenue

#304100

CEI

18119 Puritas Avenue

#716315

CEI

18013 Puritas Avenue

#716317

CEI

Section 2. That Permittee may assign the permit only with the written consent of the Director of Public Service. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right, privilege, or
permission to use, or to attach or affix any object to, poles; Permittee shall obtain such permission from the
respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching objects permitted by this ordinance shall conform to plans and specifications
approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required
permits, including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, a prospective Permittee has properly indemnified the City against any loss that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 5. That the Permit shall reserve reasonable right of entry to the encroachment location to the City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 878-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate temporary easements and
property located on the west side of
East 93rd Street between Heath and
St. Catherine Avenues for the public
purpose of widening a public road
in connection with extending Bessemer Road.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland, by Resolution No. 51210, adopted June 7, 2010, declared

the necessity and intention of appropriating the fee simple property
interests and temporary easements
described in this ordinance for the
public purpose of widening a public
road in connection with extending
Bessemer Road; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
this resolution has been served on
the persons in possession or having
an interest in the property; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

1388

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of widening a public road in
connection with extending Bessemer
Road, the following described temporary easements are appropriated:
TEMPORARY EASEMENT PARCEL
TO BE CONVEYED TO THE CITY
OF CLEVELAND
PARCEL 16 – T1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and being part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 440 and being more particularly described as follows:

August 25, 2010
Commencing at an iron pin monument in the centerline of Right of
Way of East 89th Street at its intersection with the prolongation of the
southerly Right of Way of St.
Catherine Avenue, being 20.00 feet
right of centerline of Right of Way
of St. Catherine Avenue at Station
92+45.96;
Thence North 00 degrees 09 minutes 35 seconds East a distance of
20.00 feet along the centerline of
Right of Way of East 89th Street to
a point in the centerline of Right of
Way of St. Catherine Avenue, being
in the centerline of Right of Way of
St. Catherine Avenue at Station
92+46.28;
Thence continuing North 00 degrees 09 minutes 35 seconds East a
distance of 20.00 feet along the prolongation of the centerline of Right
of Way of East 89th Street to a
point in the northerly Right of Way
of St. Catherine Avenue, being 20.00
feet left of centerline of Right of
Way of St. Catherine Avenue at Station 92+46.59;
Thence South 89 degrees 15 minutes 13 seconds West a distance of
232.41 feet along the northerly Right
of Way of St. Catherine Avenue to
a point in the easterly Right of Way
of East 88th Street, said point being
20.00 feet left of centerline of Right
of Way of St. Catherine Avenue at
Station 90+14.19 and being 15.00
feet right of the centerline of Right
of Way of East 88th Street at Station 30+63.87;
Thence North 4 degrees 15 minutes 39 seconds West a distance of
116.44 feet along the easterly Right
of Way of East 88th Street to a
point in Grantor’s southerly line,
said point being Grantor’s southwesterly corner, said point also
being the northwesterly corner of
land conveyed to the City of Cleveland Land Utilization Program as
recorded in Volume 15192, Page 16
of Cuyahoga County Records, being
15.00 feet right of centerline of
Right of Way of East 88th Street at
Station 31+80.31;
Thence North 89 degrees 14 minutes 41 seconds East a distance of
10.02 feet along the northerly line of
land so conveyed and Grantor’s
southerly line to a point in a proposed Right of Way being 25.00 feet
right of centerline of Right of Way
of East 88th Street at Station
31+79.70 and the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING.
Thence North 04 degrees 15 minutes 39 seconds West a distance of
120.24 feet along said proposed
Right of Way to a point in the
southerly line of land conveyed to
Tennyson Properties Co. as recorded
in Volume 14802, Page 657 of Cuyahoga County Records, being 25.00
feet right of centerline of Right of
Way of East 88th Street at Station
32+99.94;
Thence North 89 degrees 14 minutes 41 seconds East a distance of
16.03 feet along the southerly line of
said Tennyson Properties Co. land
so conveyed to a point 41.00 feet
right of centerline of Right of Way
of East 88th Street at Station
32+98.96;
Thence South 07 degrees 34 minutes 51 seconds East a distance of
120.87 feet to a point in Grantor’s
southerly line and the northerly line
of said City of Cleveland Land Utilization Program land so conveyed,
being 48.00 feet right of centerline
of Right of Way of East 88th Street
at Station 31+78.29;
Thence South 89 degrees 14 minutes 41 seconds West a distance of

The City Record
23.04 feet along Grantor’s southerly
line and the northerly line of said
City of Cleveland Land Utilization
Program land so conveyed to the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
The above described area contains
2345 square feet (0.054 acres), more
or less, which is part of the Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel Number 127-13-028.
Grantor claims title by instrument(s) of record in Volume 97042,
Page 047, Cuyahoga County Recorder’s Office.
Bearings based on the Cleveland
Regional Geodetic Survey (GRGS)
Coordinate System using O.M. 0033,
O.M. 0038, O.M. 0195, O.M. 0223, O.M.
0372, and O.M. 0510.
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of Right of Way
as found on the plans known as
“Bessemer Avenue Extension Phase
IIA” on file with Cuyahoga County.
This description was prepared and
reviewed on October 6, 2009 under
the supervision of Charles H. Murphy, Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6950.
This description is based on a
field survey conducted by DLZ Ohio,
Inc., under the direction of Charles
H. Murphy, P.S., Ohio Registered
Surveyor No. 6950 in November of
2007.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT PARCEL
TO BE CONVEYED TO THE CITY
OF CLEVELAND
PARCEL 16 – T2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and being part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 440 and being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at an iron pin monument in the centerline of Right of
Way of East 89th Street at its intersection with the prolongation of the
southerly Right of Way of St.
Catherine Avenue, being 20.00 feet
right of centerline of Right of Way
of St. Catherine Avenue at Station
92+45.96;
Thence North 00 degrees 09 minutes 35 seconds East a distance of
20.00 feet along the centerline of
Right of Way of East 89th Street to
a point in the centerline of Right of
Way of St. Catherine Avenue, being
in the centerline of Right of Way of
St. Catherine Avenue at Station
92+46.28;
Thence continuing North 00 degrees 09 minutes 35 seconds East a
distance of 20.00 feet along the prolongation of the centerline of Right
of Way of East 89th Street to a
point in the northerly Right of Way
of St. Catherine Avenue, being 20.00
feet left of centerline of Right of
Way of St. Catherine Avenue at Station 92+46.59;
Thence South 89 degrees 15 minutes 13 seconds West a distance of
232.41 feet along the northerly Right
of Way of St. Catherine Avenue to
a point in the easterly Right of Way
of East 88th Street, said point being
20.00 feet left of centerline of Right
of Way of St. Catherine Avenue at
Station 90+14.19 and being 15.00
feet right of the centerline of Right
of Way of East 88th Street at Station 30+63.87;
Thence North 4 degrees 15 minutes 39 seconds West a distance of
423.50 feet along the easterly Right
of Way of East 88th Street to a
point in Grantor’s westerly line, said
point also being the northwesterly
corner of land conveyed to the Tennyson Properties Co. as recorded in
Volume 14802, Page 657 of Cuyahoga
County Records, being 15.00 feet

1389

95
right of centerline of Right of Way
of East 88th Street at Station
34+87.38;
Thence South 29 degrees 50 minutes 19 seconds East along the
northerly line of land so conveyed
and Grantor’s westerly line a distance of 5.25 feet to a point of curvature 17.27 feet right of centerline
of Right of Way of East 88th Street
at Station 34+82.64;
continuing
along
the
Thence
northerly line of land so conveyed
and Grantor’s westerly line southeasterly 16.13 feet along the arc of
a curve deflecting to the left, having a radius of 543.24 feet, a central
angle of 01 degrees 42 minutes 04
seconds, a chord bearing of South 32
degrees 54 minutes 42 seconds East
and a chord length of 16.13 feet to
a point of non tangency in a proposed Right of Way being 25.00 feet
right of centerline of Right of Way
of East 88th Street at Station
34+68.49 and the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING.
Thence North 04 degrees 15 minutes 39 seconds West a distance of
44.31 feet along said proposed Right
of Way to a point in Grantor’s
northerly line and the southerly line
of land conveyed to the City of
Cleveland, Ohio “Land Reutilization
Program” as recorded in Volume
5986, Page 024 of Cuyahoga County
Records, being 25.00 feet right of
centerline of Right of Way of East
88th Street at Station 35+12.80;
Thence South 29 degrees 51 minutes 19 seconds East a distance of
23.86 feet along Grantor’s northerly
line and the southerly line of said
City of Cleveland, Ohio “Land Reutilization Program” land so conveyed
to a point 35.31 feet right of centerline of Right of Way of East 88th
Street at Station 34+91.28;
Thence South 05 degrees 57 minutes 22 seconds East a distance of
42.28 feet to a point of non tangential curvature in Grantor’s westerly
line and the northerly line of said
Tennyson Properties Co. land so
conveyed, being 36.56 feet right of
centerline of Right of Way of East
88th Street at Station 34+49.02;
Thence along Grantor’s westerly
line and the northerly line of said
Tennyson Properties Co. land so
conveyed, northwesterly; 22.65 feet
along the arc of a curve deflecting
to the right, having a radius of
543.24 feet, a central angle of 02
degrees 23 minutes 18 seconds, a
chord bearing of North 34 degrees 57
minutes 23 seconds West and a
chord length of 22.64 feet to the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
The above described area contains
461 square feet (0.011 acres), more
or less, which is part of the Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel Number 127-13-030.
Grantor claims title by instrument(s) of record in Volume 97042,
Page 047, Cuyahoga County Recorder’s Office.
Bearings based on the Cleveland
Regional Geodetic Survey (GRGS)
Coordinate System using O.M. 0033,
O.M. 0038, O.M. 0195, O.M. 0223, O.M.
0372, and O.M. 0510.
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of Right of Way
as found on the plans known as
“Bessemer Avenue Extension Phase
IIA” on file with Cuyahoga County.
This description was prepared and
reviewed on October 6, 2009 under
the supervision of Charles H. Murphy, Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6950.
This description is based on a
field survey conducted by DLZ Ohio,

96
Inc., under the direction of Charles
H. Murphy, P.S., Ohio Registered
Surveyor No. 6950 in November of
2007.
Section 2. That for the public purpose of widening a public road in
connection with extending Bessemer
Road, the following described fee
simple interests are appropriated:
TO BE CONVEYED TO THE CITY
OF CLEVELAND
PARCEL 16 – WD1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and being part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 440 and being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at an iron pin monument in the centerline of Right of
Way of East 89th Street at its intersection with the prolongation of the
southerly Right of Way of St.
Catherine Avenue, being 20.00 feet
right of centerline of Right of Way
of St. Catherine Avenue at Station
92+45.96;
Thence North 00 degrees 09 minutes 35 seconds East a distance of
20.00 feet along the centerline of
Right of Way of East 89th Street to
a point in the centerline of Right of
Way of St. Catherine Avenue, being
in the centerline of Right of Way of
St. Catherine Avenue at Station
92+46.28;
continuing
North
00
Thence
degrees 09 minutes 35 seconds East
a distance of 20.00 feet along the
prolongation of the centerline of
Right of Way of East 89th Street to
a point in the northerly Right of
Way of St. Catherine Avenue, being
20.00 feet left of centerline of Right
of Way of St. Catherine Avenue at
Station 92+46.59;
Thence South 89 degrees 15 minutes 13 seconds West a distance of
232.41 feet along the northerly Right
of Way of St. Catherine Avenue to
a point in the easterly Right of Way
of East 88th Street, said point being
20.00 feet left of centerline of Right
of Way of St. Catherine Avenue at
Station 90+14.19 and being 15.00
feet right of the centerline of Right
of Way of East 88th Street at Station 30+63.87;
Thence North 04 degrees 15 minutes 39 seconds West a distance of
116.44 feet along the easterly Right
of Way of East 88th Street to a
point in Grantor’s southerly line,
said point being Grantor’s southwesterly corner, said point also
being the northwesterly corner of
land conveyed to the City of Cleveland Land Utilization Program as
recorded in Volume 15192, Page 16
of Cuyahoga County Records, being
15.00 feet right of centerline of
Right of Way of East 88th Street at
Station 31+80.31 and the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING.
Thence continuing North 04 degrees 15 minutes 39 seconds West a
distance of 120.24 feet along the
easterly Right of Way of East 88th
Street to the southwesterly corner of
land conveyed to Tennyson Properties Co. as recorded in Volume 14802,
Page
657
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, being 15.00 feet right of
centerline of Right of Way of East
88th Street at Station 33+00.56;
Thence North 89 degrees 14 minutes 41 seconds East a distance of
10.02 feet along the southerly line of
said Tennyson Properties Co. land
so conveyed to a point in a proposed
Right of Way being 25.00 feet right
of centerline of Right of Way of
East 88th Street at Station 32+99.94;
Thence South 04 degrees 15 minutes 39 seconds East a distance of

The City Record
120.24 feet along said proposed
Right of Way to a point in Grantor’s
southerly line and the northerly line
of said City of Cleveland Land Utilization Program land so conveyed,
being 25.00 feet right of centerline
of Right of Way of East 88th Street
at Station 31+79.70;
Thence South 89 degrees 14 minutes 41 seconds West a distance of
10.02 feet along Grantor’s southerly
line and the northerly line of said
City of Cleveland Land Utilization
Program’ land so conveyed to a
point in the easterly Right of Way
of East 88th Street and the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING.
The above described area contains
1203 square feet (0.028 acres), more
or less, of which the present road
occupies 0 square feet (0.000 acres),
more or less, which is part of the
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number 127-13-028 resulting in a net take of 1203 square feet
(0.028 acres), more or less.
Grantor claims title by instrument(s) of record in Volume 97042,
Page 047, Cuyahoga County Recorder’s Office.
Bearings based on the Cleveland
Regional Geodetic Survey (GRGS)
Coordinate System using O.M. 0033,
O.M. 0038, O.M. 0195, O.M. 0223, O.M.
0372, and O.M. 0510.
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of Right of Way
as found on the plans known as
“Bessemer Avenue Extension Phase
IIA” on file with Cuyahoga County.
This description was prepared and
reviewed on October 6, 2009 under
the supervision of Charles H. Murphy, Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6950.
This description is based on a
field survey conducted by DLZ Ohio,
Inc., under the direction of Charles
H. Murphy, P.S., Ohio Registered
Surveyor No. 6950 in November of
2007.
TO BE CONVEYED TO THE CITY
OF CLEVELAND
PARCEL 16 – WD2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and being part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 440 and being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at an iron pin monument in the centerline of Right of
Way of East 89th Street at its intersection with the prolongation of the
southerly Right of Way of St.
Catherine Avenue, being 20.00 feet
right of centerline of Right of Way
of St. Catherine Avenue at Station
92+45.96;
Thence North 00 degrees 09 minutes 35 seconds East a distance of
20.00 feet along the centerline of
Right of Way of East 89th Street to
a point in the centerline of Right of
Way of St. Catherine Avenue, being
in the centerline of Right of Way of
St. Catherine Avenue at Station
92+46.28;
Thence
continuing
North
00
degrees 09 minutes 35 seconds East
a distance of 20.00 feet along the
prolongation of the centerline of
Right of Way of East 89th Street to
a point in the northerly Right of
Way of St. Catherine Avenue, being
20.00 feet left of centerline of Right
of Way of St. Catherine Avenue at
Station 92+46.59;
Thence South 89 degrees 15 minutes 13 seconds West a distance of
232.41 feet along the northerly Right
of Way of St. Catherine Avenue to
a point in the easterly Right of Way
of East 88th Street, said point being
20.00 feet left of centerline of Right

1390

August 25, 2010
of Way of St. Catherine Avenue at
Station 90+14.19 and being 15.00
feet right of the centerline of Right
of Way of East 88th Street at Station 30+63.87;
Thence North 4 degrees 15 minutes 39 seconds West a distance of
423.50 feet along the easterly Right
of Way of East 88th Street to a
point in Grantor’s westerly line, said
point also being the northwesterly
corner of land conveyed to the Tennyson Properties Co. as recorded in
Volume 14802, Page 657 of Cuyahoga
County Records, being 15.00 feet
right of centerline of Right of Way
of East 88th Street at Station
34+87.38 and the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING.
Thence North 04 degrees 15 minutes 39 seconds West a distance of
46.30 feet along Grantor’s westerly
line and the easterly Right of Way
of East 88th Street to a point in
Grantor’s northerly line and the
southerly line of land conveyed to
the City of Cleveland, Ohio “Land
Reutilization Program” as recorded
in Volume 5986, Page 024 of Cuyahoga County Records, being 15.24
feet right of centerline of Right of
Way of East 88th Street at Station
35+32.96;
Thence South 29 degrees 51 minutes 19 seconds East a distance of
23.15 feet along Grantor’s northerly
line and the southerly line of said
City of Cleveland, Ohio “Land Reutilization Program” land so conveyed
to a point in a proposed Right of
Way being 25.00 feet right of centerline of Right of Way of East 88th
Street at Station 35+12.80;
Thence South 04 degrees 15 minutes 39 seconds East a distance of
44.31 feet along said proposed Right
of Way to a non tangential point of
curvature in the northerly line of
said Tennyson Properties Co. land
so conveyed and Grantor’s westerly
line, being 25.00 feet right of centerline of Right of Way of East 88th
Street at Station 34+68.49;
Thence along Grantor’s westerly
line and the northerly line of said
Tennyson Properties Co. land so
conveyed, northwesterly; 16.13 feet
along the arc of a curve deflecting
to the right, having a radius of
543.24 feet, a central angle of 01
degrees 42 minutes 04 seconds, a
chord bearing of North 32 degrees 54
minutes 42 seconds West and a
chord length of 16.13 feet to a point
of tangency 17.27 feet right of centerline of Right of Way of East 88th
Street at Station 34+82.64;
Thence North 29 degrees 50 minutes 19 seconds West a distance of
5.25 feet along Grantor’s westerly
line and the northerly line of said
Tennyson Properties Co. land so
conveyed to the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING.
The above described area contains
456 square feet (0.010 acres), more
or less, of which the present road
occupies 0 square feet (0.000 acres),
more or less, which is part of the
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number 127-13-030 resulting in a net take of 456 square feet
(0.010 acres), more or less.
Grantor claims title by instrument(s) of record in Volume 97042,
Page
047,
Cuyahoga
County
Recorder’s Office.
Bearings based on the Cleveland
Regional Geodetic Survey (GRGS)
Coordinate System using O.M. 0033,
O.M. 0038, O.M. 0195, O.M. 0223, O.M.
0372, and O.M. 0510.
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of Right of Way
as found on the plans known as

August 25, 2010
“Bessemer Avenue Extension Phase
IIA” on file with Cuyahoga County.
This description was prepared and
reviewed on October 6, 2009 under
the supervision of Charles H. Murphy, Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6950.
This description is based on a
field survey conducted by DLZ Ohio,
Inc., under the direction of Charles
H. Murphy, P.S., Ohio Registered
Surveyor No. 6950 in November of
2007.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law is directed to apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction to have a
jury impaneled to make inquiry into
and assess the compensation to be
paid for the fee simple interests and
easements described above.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 881-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Miller and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate an overhead permanent utility easement at 6938 Kinsman Road
for the public purpose of relocating
power poles and lines needed to
rehabilitate portions of Woodland
Avenue and Kinsman Road.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland, by Resolution No. 51110, adopted June 7, 2010, declared
the necessity and intention of appropriating an overhead permanent
easement at 6938 Kinsman Road in
this ordinance for the public purpose of relocating power poles and
lines needed to rehabilitate portions
of Woodland Avenue and Kinsman
Road; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
this resolution has been served on
the persons in possession or having
an interest in the easement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of relocating power poles and
lines needed to rehabilitate portions
of Woodland Avenue and Kinsman
Road, the following described overhead permanent utility easement in
and to the property located at 6938
Kinsman Road is appropriated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 329. Also
being part of the land conveyed to
Alfred Jones as recorded in Instrument No. 199910120919 of the Cuyahoga County Records, being more
definitely described as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of
the southwesterly right of way of
Kinsman Road (60 feet wide) and
the northwesterly right of way of
Sidaway Avenue (50 feet wide);
Thence, along the northwesterly
right of way of Sidaway Avenue,
South 33° 00' 31" West, 33.00 feet;

The City Record
Thence, leaving said right of way,
North 16° 10' 33" East, 34.53 feet to
the southwesterly right of way of
Kinsman Road;
Thence, along said right of way,
South 56° 41' 18" East, 10.00 feet to
the point of beginning.
Containing within said bounds
0.0038 acres (165 square feet) of
land as surveyed by KS Associates,
Inc. under the supervision of Trevor
A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No.
7730 in July of 2008.
Bearings are based on the Cleveland Regional Geodetic Survey.
Section 2. That the Director of
Law is directed to apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction to have a
jury impaneled to make inquiry into
and assess the compensation to be
paid for overhead permanent easement described above.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 882-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Mitchell, Miller and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate property for the public purpose of widening a public road in
connection with extending Bessemer
Avenue, located near the southwest
corner of East 88th Street and Union
Avenue.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland, by Resolution No. 72610, adopted June 7, 2010, declared
the necessity and intention of appropriating the fee simple property
interests described in this ordinance
for the public purpose of widening
a public road in connection with
extending Bessemer Avenue, located
near the southwest corner of East
88th Street and Union Avenue; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
this resolution has been served on
the persons in possession or having
an interest in the property; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of widening a public road in
connection with extending Bessemer
Avenue, located near the southwest
corner of East 88th Street and Union
Avenue, the following described fee
simple interests are appropriated:
TO BE CONVEYED TO
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND
PARCEL 10-WD
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and being part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 448, also being part of Sub
Lot 8 in the J. Paton Allotment as
recorded in Map Volume 12, Page 31
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being more particularly described as
follows:
Commencing in the centerline of
Right of Way of Union Avenue at
its intersection with the prolonga-

1391

97
tion of the easterly Right of Way of
East 89th Street, being in the centerline of Right of Way of Union
Avenue at Station 82+39.14, said
point being referenced by a stone
monument North 00 degrees 09 minutes 52 seconds West a distance of
0.44 feet;
Thence South 89 degrees 16 minutes 01 seconds West a distance of
129.19 feet along the centerline of
Right of Way of Union Avenue, also
being the northerly line of said 100
Acre Lot 448, to a point of intersection with the prolongation of the
westerly Right of Way of East 88th
Street, being in the centerline of
Right of Way of Union Avenue at
Station 81+09.94;
Thence South 00 degrees 24 minutes 49 seconds East a distance of
30.00 feet along said prolongation of
the westerly Right of Way of East
88th Street to a point in the southerly Right of Way of Union Avenue,
being 30.00 feet right of the centerline of Right of Way of Union
Avenue at Station 81+09.78, also
being 79.05 feet right of the centerline of Right of Way of Crane
Avenue at Station 25+79.93, said
point being the northeasterly corner
of Sub Lot 10 in said J. Paton Allotment;
Thence South 89 degrees 16 minutes 01 seconds West a distance of
85.00 along the southerly Right of
Way of Union Avenue and the
northerly line of said J. Paton Allotment to a point being the northeasterly corner of said Sub Lot 8
and Grantor’s northeasterly corner,
said point being 5.15 feet left of the
centerline of Right of Way of Crane
Avenue at Station 25+91.55 and the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;
Thence South 00 degrees 24 minutes 49 seconds East a distance of
134.31 feet along Grantor’s easterly
line, the easterly line of said Sub
Lot 8 and the westerly line of Sub
Lot 9 in said J. Paton Allotment to
a point in Grantor’s southerly line
being 24.26 feet left of centerline of
Right of Way of Crane Avenue at
Station
24+58.61
and
Grantor’s
southeasterly corner;
Thence South 89 degrees 20 minutes 05 seconds West a distance of
0.75 feet along Grantor’s southerly
line to a point in a proposed Right
of Way being 25.00 feet left of centerline of Right of Way of Crane
Avenue at Station 24+58.71;
Thence North 08 degrees 35 minutes 30 seconds West a distance of
65.87 feet along said proposed Right
of Way to a point of curvature
being 25.00 feet left of centerline of
Right of Way of Crane Avenue at
Station 25+24.58;
Thence along said proposed Right
of Way, northwesterly; 55.09 feet
along the arc of a curve deflecting
to the left, having a radius of 80.00
feet, a central angle of 39 degrees
27 minutes 15 seconds, a chord bearing of North 28 degrees 19 minutes
08 seconds West and a chord length
of 54.01 feet to a point in Grantor’s
westerly line and the easterly line
of land conveyed to the New York
Central Lines, LLC and recorded in
AFN Number 200208200163 of Cuyahoga County Records, being 43.23
feet left of centerline of Right of
Way of Crane Avenue at Station
25+75.41;
Thence North 07 degrees 33 minutes 26 seconds West a distance of
21.35 feet along Grantor’s westerly
line and the easterly line of land so
conveyed to a point in Grantor’s
northerly line, the southerly Right
of Way of Union Avenue, and the

98
northerly line of said Sub Lot 8,
being 42.84 feet left of centerline of
Right of Way of Crane Avenue at
25+96.76
and
Grantor’s
Station
northwesterly corner;
Thence North 89 degrees 16 minutes 01 seconds East a distance of
38.05 feet along Grantor’s northerly
line, the southerly Right of Way of
Union Avenue and the northerly line
of said Sub Lot 8 to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING;
The above described area contains
2052 square feet (0.047 acres), more
or less, of which the present road
occupies 0 square feet (0.000 acres),
more or less, which is part of the
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number 133-22-019 resulting in a net take of 2052 square feet
(0.047 acres), more or less.
Grantor claims title by instrument(s) of record in Volume 83504,
Page 005, Cuyahoga County Recorder’s Office.
Bearings based on the Cleveland
Regional Geodetic Survey (GRGS)
Coordinate System using O.M. 0033,
O.M. 0038, O.M. 0195, O.M. 0223, O.M.
0372, and O.M. 0510.
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of Right of Way
as found on the plans known as
“Bessemer Avenue Extension Phase
IIA” on file with Cuyahoga County.
This description was prepared and
reviewed on October 6, 2009 under
the supervision of Charles H. Murphy, Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6950.
This description is based on a
field survey conducted by DLZ Ohio,
Inc., under the direction of Charles
H. Murphy, P.S., Ohio Registered
Surveyor No. 6950 in November of
2007.
DLZ Ohio, Inc.
Section 2. That the Director of
Law is directed to apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction to have a
jury impaneled to make inquiry into
and assess the compensation to be
paid for the fee simple interests
described above.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 883-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Mitchell, Miller and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate easements for the public purpose of widening a public road in
connection with extending Bessemer
Avenue, located near the southwest
corner of East 88th Street and Bessemer Avenue.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland, by Resolution No. 72410, adopted June 7, 2010, declared
the necessity and intention of appropriating easements described in this
ordinance for the public purpose of
widening a public road in connection
with
extending
Bessemer
Avenue, located near the southwest
corner of East 88th Street and Bessemer Avenue; and notice of the adoption of this resolution has been
served on the persons in possession

The City Record
or having an interest in the property; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of widening a public road in
connection with extending Bessemer
Avenue, the following described
temporary easements, located near
the southwest corner of East 88th
Street and Bessemer Avenue, are
appropriated:
TEMPORARY
EASEMENT PARCEL
TO BE CONVEYED TO THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND
PARCEL 19-T1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
being part of Original 100 Acre Lot
No. 439 and part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 440, and being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of
existing centerline of Right of Way
of Bessemer Avenue and the easterly line of said Original 100 Acre Lot
No. 439, said point being Grantor’s
northeasterly corner, said point also
being referenced by an iron pin
monument at an angle point in the
existing
centerline
of
Bessemer
Avenue South 89 degrees 39 minutes
46 seconds east a distance of 20.00
feet and being 49.17 feet left of the
centerline of Right of Way of Bessemer Avenue at Station 151+77.63
Thence North 89 degrees 39 minutes 46 seconds West a distance of
129.71 feet along the existing centerline of Right of Way of Bessemer
Avenue and Grantor’s northerly line
to a point being Grantor’s northwesterly corner, said point also
being the northeasterly corner of
land conveyed to Bessemer Real
Estate Holdings, LLC and recorded
in AFN Number 200611030873 Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence South 02 degrees 58 minutes 16 seconds East a distance of
25.04 feet along Grantor’s westerly
line and the easterly line of land so
conveyed to a point in the southerly Right of Way of Bessemer
Avenue, said point being 25.00 feet
right of the centerline of Right of
Way of Bessemer Avenue at Station
150+73.16 and the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING;
Thence South 89 degrees 39 minutes 46 seconds East a distance of
0.85 feet along the southerly Right
of Way of Bessemer Avenue to a
point of curvature in a proposed
Right of Way 25.00 feet right of centerline of Right of Way of Bessemer
Avenue at Station 150+74.19;
Thence along said proposed Right
of Way, southeasterly; 167.26 feet
along the arc of a curve deflecting
to the right, having a radius of
123.24 feet, a central angle of 77
degrees 45 minutes 39 seconds, a
chord bearing of South 50 degrees 44
minutes 28 seconds East and a chord
length of 154.72 feet to a point of
non tangency 20.00 feet right of centerline of Right of Way of Bessemer
Avenue at Station 152+73.34;
Thence South 09 degrees 23 minutes 52 seconds East a distance of
49.22 feet along said proposed Right
of Way to a point in the westerly
Right of Way of Bessemer Avenue,
the easterly line of said Original 100
Acre Lot No. 439 and Grantor’s easterly line at 20.00 feet right of centerline of Right of Way of Bessemer

1392

August 25, 2010
Avenue at Station 153+22.59;
Thence South 00 degrees 05 minutes 36 seconds East a distance of
162.53 feet along the westerly Right
of Way of Bessemer Avenue, the
easterly line of said Original100
Acre Lot No. 439 and Grantor’s easterly line to a point of curvature
62.88 feet right of centerline of
Right of Way of Bessemer Avenue
at Station 154+59.81;
Thence along the westerly Right
of Way of Bessemer Avenue and
Grantor’s easterly line, southeasterly; 98.02 feet along the arc of a
curve deflecting to the left, having
a radius of 60.00 feet, a central
angle of 93 degrees 36 minutes 00
seconds, a chord bearing of South 46
degrees 53 minutes 36 seconds East
and a chord length of 87.48 feet to
a point of tangency 59.74 feet right
of centerline of Right of Way of
Bessemer
Avenue
at
Station
155+21.51;
Thence South 86 degrees 18 minutes 24 seconds West a distance of
63.89 feet to a point 103.14 feet right
of centerline of Right of Way of
Avenue
at
Station
Bessemer
154+91.42;
Thence South 89 degrees 54 minutes 24 seconds West a distance of
15.00 feet to a point 113.94 feet right
of centerline of Right of Way of
Bessemer
Avenue
at
Station
154+85.50;
Thence North 00 degrees 05 minutes 36 seconds West a distance of
282.10 feet to a point 25.50 feet right
of centerline of Right of Way of
Bessemer
Avenue
at
Station
152+63.39;
Thence South 88 degrees 47 minutes 42 seconds West a distance of
14.88 feet to a point 40.00 feet right
of centerline of Right of Way of
Bessemer
Avenue
at
Station
152+59.00;
Thence North 13 degrees 00 minutes 07 seconds West a distance of
45.11 feet to a point 28.98 feet right
of centerline of Right of Way of
Bessemer
Avenue
at
Station
152+00.92;
Thence North 66 degrees 38 minutes 46 seconds West a distance of
55.37 feet to a point 42.52 feet right
of centerline of Right of Way of
Bessemer
Avenue
at
Station
151+28.46;
Thence North 89 degrees 39 minutes 46 seconds West a distance of
36.44 feet to a point in Grantor’s
westerly line and the easterly line
of said land conveyed to Bessemer
Real Estate Holdings, LLC at 49.99
feet right of centerline of Right of
Way of Bessemer Avenue at Station
150+75.45;
Thence North 02 degrees 58 minutes 16 seconds West a distance of
25.04 feet along Grantor’s westerly
line to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
The above described area contains
7362 square feet (0.169 acres), more
or less, which is part of the Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel Numbers 127-06-009 and 12706-007 and contains 6469 square feet
(0.148 acres), more or less, in Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number 12706-009 and 893 square feet (0.021
acres), more or less, in Auditor’s
Permanent Parcel Number 127-06-007.
Grantor claims title by instrument(s) of record in AFN No.
200701040539
and
AFN
No.
200701040540,
Cuyahoga
County
Recorder’s Office.
Bearings based on the Cleveland
Regional Geodetic Survey (GRGS)
Coordinate System using O.M. 0033,
O.M. 0038, O.M. 0195, O.M. 0223, O.M.
0372, and O.M. 0510.

August 25, 2010
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of Right of Way
as found on the plans known as
“Bessemer Avenue Extension Phase
IIA” on file with Cuyahoga County.
This description was prepared and
reviewed on October 6, 2009 under
the supervision of Charles H. Murphy, Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6950.
This description is based on a
field survey conducted by DLZ Ohio,
Inc., under the direction of Charles
H. Murphy, P.S., Ohio Registered
Surveyor No. 6950 in November of
2007.
DLZ Ohio, Inc.
TEMPORARY
EASEMENT PARCEL
TO BE CONVEYED TO THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND
PARCEL 19-T2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and being part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 440 and being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of
existing centerline of Right of Way
of Bessemer Avenue and the westerly line of said Original 100 Acre
No.
440,
said
point
being
Lot
Grantor’s northeasterly corner, said
point being referenced by an iron
pin monument at an angle point in
the existing centerline of Bessemer
Avenue South 89 degrees 39 minutes
46 seconds east a distance of 20.00
feet and being 49.17 feet left of the
centerline of Right of Way of Bessemer Avenue at Station 151+77.63
Thence South 00 degrees 05 minutes 36 seconds West a distance of
25.00 feet along the westerly line of
said 100 Acre Lot No. 440 and
Grantor’s easterly line to a point in
the easterly Right of Way of Bessemer Avenue, said point being 31.50
feet left of the centerline of Right
of Way of Bessemer Avenue at Station 151+91.45;
Thence South 00 degrees 05 minutes 36 seconds West a distance of
308.24 feet along the westerly Right
of Way of Bessemer Avenue, the
westerly line of said 100 Acre Lot
No. 440 and Grantor’s easterly line
to a point of curvature, said point
being 62.88 feet right of the centerline of Right of Way of Bessemer
Avenue at Station 154+59.81;
Thence
southeasterly
along
Grantor’s easterly line and Bessemer Right of Way 98.02 feet along
the arc of a curve deflecting to the
left, having a radius of 60.00 feet, a
central angle of 93 degrees 36 minutes 00 seconds, a chord bearing of
South 46 degrees 53 minutes 36 seconds East and a chord length of
87.48 feet to a point of tangency in
the southerly Right of Way of
Bessemer Avenue 59.74 feet right of
centerline of Right of Way of Bessemer Avenue at Station 155+21.51;
Thence North 86 degrees 18 minutes 24 seconds East a distance of
18.19 feet along Grantor’s northerly
line and the southerly Right of Way
Bessemer Avenue to a point 49.49
feet right of centerline of Right of
Way of Bessemer Avenue at Station
155+32.39 and the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING;
Thence
continuing
North
86
degrees 18 minutes 24 seconds East
a distance of 75.00 feet along
Grantor’s northerly line and the
southerly Right of Way of Bessemer
Avenue to a non tangential point of
curvature in Grantor’s northerly
line, also being in the westerly line
of land conveyed to the New York
Central Lines, LLC and recorded in

The City Record
AFN Number 200208200163 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being
22.29 feet right of centerline of
Right of Way of Bessemer Avenue
at Station 155+88.81;
Thence along the westerly line of
land so conveyed and Grantor’s easterly line, southeasterly 15.00 feet
along the arc of a curve deflecting
to the left, having a radius of
5786.50 feet, a central angle of 00
degrees 08 minutes 55 seconds, a
chord bearing of South 03 degrees 57
minutes 33 seconds East and a chord
length of 15.00 feet to a point of non
tangency 37.09 feet right of centerline of Right of Way of Bessemer
Avenue at Station 155+90.84;
Thence South 86 degrees 18 minutes 24 seconds West a distance of
75.07 feet to a point 62.35 feet right
of centerline of Right of Way of
Avenue
at
Station
Bessemer
155+37.95;
Thence North 03 degrees 41 minutes 36 seconds West a distance of
15.00 feet to the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING.
The above described area contains
1126 square feet (0.026 acres), more
or less, which is part of Cuyahoga
County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel
Number 127-06-007.
Grantor claims title by instrument(s) of record in AFN No.
200701040540,
Cuyahoga
County
Recorder’s Office.
Bearings based on the Cleveland
Regional Geodetic Survey (GRGS)
Coordinate System using O.M. 0033,
O.M. 0038, O.M. 0195, O.M. 0223, O.M.
0372, and O.M. 0510.
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of Right of Way
as found on the plans known as
“Bessemer Avenue Extension Phase
IIA” on file with Cuyahoga County.
This description was prepared and
reviewed on October 6, 2009 under
the supervision of Charles H. Murphy, Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6950.
This description is based on a
field survey conducted by DLZ Ohio,
Inc., under the direction of Charles
H. Murphy, P.S., Ohio Registered
Surveyor No. 6950 in November of
2007.
DLZ Ohio, Inc.
Section 2. That for the public purpose of widening a public road in
connection with extending Bessemer
Avenue, the following described
highway easement, located near the
southwest corner of East 88th Street
and Bessemer Avenue, is appropriated:
EASEMENT FOR
HIGHWAY PURPOSES
TO BE CONVEYED TO THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND
PARCEL 19-WD
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and being part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 439 and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
existing centerline of Right of Way
of Bessemer Avenue and the easterly line of said Original 100 Acre Lot
No. 439, said point being Grantor’s
northeasterly corner, said point also
being referenced by an iron pin
monument at an angle point in the
existing
centerline
of
Bessemer
Avenue South 89 degrees 39 minutes
46 seconds east a distance of 20.00
feet and being 49.17 feet left of the
centerline of Right of Way of Bessemer Avenue at Station 151+77.63
and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;
Thence South 00 degrees 05 min-

1393

99
utes 36 seconds East a distance of
170.71 feet along the easterly line of
said 100 Acre Lot No. 100, Grantor’s
easterly line and the westerly Right
of Way of Bessemer Avenue to a
point in a proposed Right of Way,
20.00 feet right of centerline of
Right of Way of Bessemer Avenue
at Station 153+22.59;
Thence North 09 degrees 23 minutes 52 seconds West a distance of
49.22 feet along said proposed Right
of Way to a point of curvature 20.00
feet right of centerline of Right of
Way of Bessemer Avenue at Station
152+73.34;
Thence along said proposed Right
of Way, northwesterly; 167.26 feet
along the arc of a curve deflecting
to the left, having a radius of 123.24
feet, a central angle of 77 degrees
45 minutes 39 seconds, a chord bearing of North 50 degrees 44 minutes
28 seconds West and a chord length
of 154.72 feet to a point of tangency
in the southerly Right of Way of
Bessemer Avenue at 25.00 feet right
of centerline of Right of Way of
Bessemer
Avenue
at
Station
150+74.19;
Thence North 89 degrees 39 minutes 46 seconds West a distance of
0.85 feet along the southerly Right
of Way of Bessemer Avenue to a
point in Grantor’s westerly line, said
point being in the easterly line of
land conveyed to Bessemer Real
Estate Holdings, LLC as recorded in
AFN No. 200611030873 of Cuyahoga
County Records, being 25.00 feet
right of centerline of Right of Way
of Bessemer Avenue at Station
150+73.16;
Thence North 02 degrees 58 minutes 16 seconds West a distance of
25.04 feet along the easterly line of
land so conveyed and Grantor’s
westerly line to a point in Grantor’s
northerly line and the centerline of
Right of Way of Bessemer Avenue
at Station 150+71.67;
Thence South 89 degrees 39 minutes 46 seconds East a distance of
129.71 feet along the centerline of
Right of Way of Bessemer Avenue
and Grantor’s northerly line to the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
The above described area contains
7123 square feet (0.164 acres), more
or less, of which the present road
occupies 3227 square feet (0.074
acres), more or less, which is part
of the Cuyahoga County Auditor’s
Permanent Parcel Number 127-06-009
resulting in a net take of 3896
square feet (0.089 acres), more or
less.
Grantor claims title by instrument(s) of record in AFN No.
200701040539, Cuyahoga County Recorder’s Office.
Bearings based on the Cleveland
Regional Geodetic Survey (GRGS)
Coordinate System using O.M. 0033,
O.M. 0038, O.M. 0195, O.M. 0223, O.M.
0372, and O.M. 0510.
The stations referred to herein are
from the centerline of Right of Way
as found on the plans known as
“Bessemer Avenue Extension Phase
IIA” on file with Cuyahoga County.
This description was prepared and
reviewed on October 6, 2009 under
the supervision of Charles H. Murphy, Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6950.
This description is based on a
field survey conducted by DLZ Ohio,
Inc., under the direction of Charles
H. Murphy, P.S., Ohio Registered
Surveyor No. 6950 in November of
2007.
DLZ Ohio, Inc.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law is directed to apply to a court

The City Record

100
of competent jurisdiction to have a
jury impaneled to make inquiry into
and assess the compensation to be
paid for the easements described
above.
Section 4 That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 884-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland, Mitchell and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 514.01 to 514.11 and
514.99 relating to the issuance of
temporary public right-of-way occupancy permits for streetscape amenities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 514.01 to 514.11 and 514.99 to
read as follows:
CHAPTER 514
ISSUANCE OF TEMPORARY
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
OCCUPANCY PERMITS FOR
STREETSCAPE AMENITIES
Section 514.01 Definitions
When used in this Chapter, the
following words shall have the following meanings:
(a) “Director” means the Director
of Public Service, or the Director’s
designee.
(b) “Permit” means a temporary
public right-of-way occupancy permit authorized under this Chapter.
(c) “Permittee” means the person
authorized to occupy an area of the
public right-of-way.
(d)
“Right-of-way”
means
any
sidewalk, court, alley, street or
other area dedicated or otherwise
designated for public use and held
by the City.
(e) “Streetscape amenities” means
any item placed within the public
right-of-way, including but not limited to: banners, benches, planters,
public art, directional signs, bicycle
racks, trash containers, railings,
decorative fencing, curbing, pavers,
planting beds, planting bed irrigation, hanging baskets, special district signage, and seasonal decorations.
(f) “Unobstructed walk” means a
clear, continuous paved surface free
of tree grates, elevator grates and
all vertical obstructions.
Section 514.02 Temporary Public
Right-of-Way Occupancy Permits
Notwithstanding any codified ordinance to the contrary, the Director
of Public Service is authorized to
issue temporary public right-of-way
occupancy permits revocable at the

will of Council authorizing the
placement of various streetscape
amenities at permitted locations on
sidewalks, courts, alleys, streets or
other public rights-of-way in the
City, subject to the provisions of
this Chapter. A separate encroachment permit for such items shall not
be required.
No owner or operator of a business establishment shall occupy any
portion of a public sidewalk, court,
alley, street or other public right-ofwith
streetscape
amenities
way
without first obtaining a permit
under this Chapter. Any business
owner or operator occupying any
portion of a public sidewalk, court,
alley, street or other public right-ofway without a permit as required by
this chapter shall be subject to the
fines and penalties set forth in this
Chapter.
Section 514.03 Application for Permits
Application for a permit shall be
made to the Director in a form
deemed appropriate by the Director.
The application shall include, but
not be limited to, the following
information:
(a) Name, phone number, and
address of applicant;
(b) Street address of the proposed
amenity;
(c) A description of the proposed
area, with photographs;
(d) A description of the proposed
including
information
amenity,
about the composition;
(e) A signed statement that the
applicant is the owner of the property immediately adjacent to the
proposed amenity. If the applicant is
not the owner of the subject property, a notarized statement from the
owner indicating their knowledge
and consent to the proposed amenities; and
(f) A signed statement that the
Permittee shall hold harmless the
City of Cleveland, its officers and
employees and shall indemnify the
City of Cleveland, its officers and
employees for any claims or damage
to property or injury to persons. Permittee shall furnish and maintain
the public liability and property
damage insurance as will protect
Permittee and the City from all
claims for damage to property or
bodily
injury,
including
death,
which may arise from operations
under the permit or in connection
therewith. The insurance shall provide coverage in an amount of not
less
than
One
Million
Dollars
($1,000,000) on account of an accident involving injuries, including
death, to one or more persons and
property damage insurance in an
amount of not less than One Million
Dollars ($1,000,000), or a combined
single limit of One Million Dollars
($1,000,000) provided however, that
this insurance requirement shall not
be construed to limit Permittee’s
indemnification obligations to the
above-required limits of insurance.
Such insurance shall also name the
City of Cleveland as an additional
insured, its officers and employees,
and shall further provide that the
policy shall not terminate or be canceled prior to the expiration date of
the permit without thirty (30) days
written notice to the Director.
Section 514.04
Permit Fee, Issuance and Duration
(a) An application for a permit
shall be accompanied by a fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus
$10.00 for each individual amenity

1394

August 25, 2010
for which a permit is desired.
(b) On approval of the application
by the Director of Public Service,
the Director of the City Planning
Commission, the Secretary of the
Landmarks Commission, and any
other Director that the Director of
Public Service deems applicable, and
in compliance with the Council notification provision described below,
the Director of Public Service shall
issue a permit under this Chapter.
(c) No permit shall be issued until
the members of Council of the wards
affected have been provided with
written notice by the Director of
Public Service and until the expiration of thirty (30) days from the
date of this notice, unless the period of thirty (30) days is expressly
waived by the Council members in
writing.
(d) Permits shall be valid for a
not more than a twelve month period. No permit shall extend beyond
March 31st of any year. Permits may
be renewed, on a form provided by
the
Director,
provided
all
the
requirements of this Chapter are
met, and no changes have been
made from the previous approved
application. The permit renewal fee
shall be one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00), plus $10.00 for each individual amenity. If there are changes
to the application, a new application
must be made under this application
and the appropriate permit fee shall
accompany the application.
Section 514.05 Permitted Locations
The Director, consistent with the
provisions of this chapter and the
zoning code, shall establish rules
and regulations as the Director
deems proper with respect to perlocations
for
streetscape
mitted
amenities.
The issuance of permits shall be
subject to the rules and regulations
established by the Director.
Section 514.06 Permits
Permits shall be issued in such a
manner that they are readily accessible on request from a City official.
Each permit shall contain the following information:
(a) The name and address of the
Permittee;
(b) A description of the permitted
location;
(c) A description of the permitted
amenities;
(d) The expiration date of the permit; and
(e) Any other information the
Director deems appropriate.
Section 514.07 Requirements and
Conditions of Permit
(a) Permittees and their agents
shall comply with all of the requirements of this chapter and any
applicable state law, while engaged
in business at permitted locations.
(b) Permittees and their agents
shall be responsible for maintaining
all amenities and associated equipment in good repair, free of corrosion and in a safe, sound, and nonhazardous condition.
(c) Permittees and their agents
shall be responsible for keeping the
general area around the permitted
location free of litter. Permittees
and their agents shall maintain at
least six (6) feet of unobstructed
walk as required by the Director of
Public Service, which shall be free
of snow at all times, as required by
Section 507.13.
(d) No permit shall be transferable in any manner.
(e) A permit is valid only when

August 25, 2010
used at the location designated in
the permit.
Section 514.08 Permit Suspension
and Revocation
(a) The Director may suspend or
revoke the permit of any Permittee
if the Permittee or his agent fails
to abide by the provisions of these
codified Ordinances or State law.
(b) The Director shall give written notice of suspension or revocation of the permit to the Permittee
or his agent stating the reasons
therefore. If the reason for the suspension or revocation is that the
Permittee does not currently have
an effective insurance policy as
required by this Chapter, the action
shall be effective on giving notice
to the Permittee or to his agent. Otherwise notice shall contain the further provision that the action shall
become final and effective ten (10)
days thereafter unless, within five
(5) days of receipt of notice, the
Permittee requests a hearing before
the Director. The Director shall hold
the requested hearing, at which time
the Permittee shall be afforded the
opportunity to give his version of
the facts which gave rise to the
Director’s action. After the hearing,
Director
shall
determine
the
whether to proceed with the action
or to rescind it.
(c) The action of the Director may
be appealed to the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
Section 514.09 Removal of Streetscape Amenities
Any streetscape amenity placed in
a public sidewalk, court, alley,
street, or other public right-of-way
without a permit issued under this
section may be seized and removed.
Before the seizure and removal, the
property owner or operator of the
business establishment fronting on
the public right-of-way shall be notified and given two (2) days in
which to remedy the violation. If the
property owner or operator of the
business establishment fails to remedy the violation, the City may seize
and remove the associated amenity.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter, the City may
seize any amenity items and associated
equipment,
whether
placed
with or without a permit, without
prior notice if such items and associated equipment are placed in the
public right-of-way in such a place
or manner as to pose an immediate
and serious danger to persons or
property or if the condition of the
items and associated equipment renders them unsafe, unsound, or hazardous so as to pose an immediate
and serious danger to persons or
property. After seizure, the City
shall promptly notify the owner or
operator of the business establishment and such individual shall have
the right to request an informal
hearing before the Director within
ten (10) days after notification to
determine whether the seizure was
proper.
As a condition of recovering any
items and other associated equipment properly seized under this section, the owner of the items and
other associated equipment shall
pay an impound fee covering the
actual cost to the City of transporting and storing the items and other
associated equipment.
Section 514.10 Taxes
The Permittee shall be responsible
for all charges and all federal, State
or local taxes, including property

The City Record
taxes, which may now or hereafter
be imposed or levied on the subject
site.
Section 514.11 Regulations
The Director may promulgate regulations, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Chapter, establishing procedures for the issuance
of permits.
Section 514.99 Penalty
Whoever violates any provision of
this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
Each day during which noncompliance or a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 890-10.
Council Members Mitchell, Miller,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Shaker Square
Area Development Corporation to
encroach into the public right-ofway at the southwest corner of
Larchmere Boulevard and East 121st
Street by installing, using, and
maintaining a neighborhood entry
sign, a planter, and an underground
power conduit.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Shaker Square Area
Development
Corporation,
11811
Shaker Boulevard, Suite 206, Cleveland, Ohio 44120 (“Permittee”), to
encroach into the public right-ofway of the southwest corner of
Larchmere Boulevard and East 121st
Street by installing, using, and
maintaining a neighborhood entry
sign, a planter, and an underground
power conduit at the following location: 6-foot by 15-foot area that is 3
feet south of the curb face and 13.71
feet west of the utility pole, in front
of 12022-24 Larchmere Boulevard on
the southwest corner of Larchmere
Boulevard and East 121st Street.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structures permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachments.

1395

101
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
indemnified
the
City
properly
against any loss that may result
from the encroachments permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment locations.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 891-10.
By Council Members Miller and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of carts needed to expand the Automated Waste
Collection and Curbside Recycling
Program, for the Division of Waste
Collection and Disposal, Department
of Public Service, for a period of one
year, with three one-year options to
renew, the second of which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a one year period with three oneyear options to renew, of the necessary items of carts needed to
expand the Automated Waste Collection and Curbside Recycling Program, in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Waste
Collection
and
Disposal,
Department of Public Service. The
first of the one-year options to
renew may be exercised by the
Director of Public Service, without
the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council. The second of the one-year options to renew
may not be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such
additional
legislative
authority
is
granted and the second of the oneyear options to renew is exercised,
then the third of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Public Service, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to

The City Record

102
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RQN 4003
RL 2010-46)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public Service may sign all documents that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

August 25, 2010

Ord. No. 1029-10.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Conwell, Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to University Circle
Inc. to encroach into the public
rights-of- way of various streets in
the University Circle area by installing, using, and maintaining a
total of 25 wayfinding signs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to University Circle Inc.
(“Permittee”), 10831 Magnolia Drive,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106-1887, to encroach into the public rights-of-way
of various streets in the University
Circle area by installing, using, and
maintaining 25 wayfinding signs at
approximately the locations described in Council File No. 1029-10-A. The
location of an encroaching object
stated in the File shall not be
changed without the prior written
approval of the Director of Public
Service who shall then report each
changed location to Council in writing for incorporation in the File.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
written consent of the Director of
Public Service. That nothing in this
ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right,

privilege, or permission to use, or to
attach or affix any object to, poles;
Permittee shall obtain such permission from the respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching
objects permitted by this ordinance
shall conform to plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required permits, including but not limited to Building
Permits, before installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, a prospective
Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachments permitted.
Section 5. That the Permit shall
reserve reasonable right of entry to
the encroachment location to the
City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010

Ord. No. 1037-10.
By Council Members Brady, Miller and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. 69299, for the West 121st Street Extension and Reconstruction Project, with Fabrizi Trucking &
Paving Company, Inc., for the Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to make the following alterations and modification
in Contract No. 69299 with Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Company, Inc. for the West 121st Street Extension and
Reconstruction Project, for the Department of Public Service:
SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS
BID
ITEM
NO.

DESCRIPTION

ROADWAY
1
ITEM
2
ITEM
3
ITEM
4
ITEM
5
ITEM
6
7
8

ITEM
ITEM
ITEM

9

ITEM

10

ITEM

11
12
13

ITEM
ITEM
ITEM

202
202
202
202
203

UNIT

—
—
—
—
—

PAVEMENT REMOVED AS PER D-15
PAVEMENT REMOVED FOR DRIVES
WALK REMOVED
CURB REMOVED
EXCAVATION NOT INCLUDING
EMBANKMENT CONSTRUCTION
204 — SUBGRADE COMPACTION
204 — PROOF ROLLING
SPECIAL — GEOTEXTILE FABRIC, 712.09,
TYPE D, AS PER PLAN
SPECIAL — UNDERCUTTING SUBGRADE AND
SUBBASE, AS PER D-16, AS PER PLAN
604 — MONUMENT BOX ASSEMBLY REMOVED,
REPLACED AND SET TO GRADE,
AS PER D-41
608 — 6" CONCRETE WALK AS PER D-23
653 — 4" TOPSOIL FURNISHED & PLACED
608 — 8" CONCRETE WALK, AS PER D-23
SUBTOTAL ROADWAY

SQ.
SQ.
SQ.
LIN

TOTAL
QUANTITY

BID UNIT
COST

ITEM
TOTAL

YD.
YD.
FT.
FT

2,532
185
800
1,593

$9.00
$6.00
$1.00
$4.00

$22,788.00
$1,110.00
$800.00
$6,372.00

CU. YD.
SQ. YD.
HOUR

292
2,532
4

$9.00
$1.00
$70.00

$2,628.00
$2,532.00
$280.00

SQ. YD.

2,532

$1.00

$2,532.00

CU. YD.

844

$58.00

$48,952.00

EACH
SQ. FT.
CU. YD.
SQ. FT.

1
800
25
268

$250.00
$4.90
$24.00
$5.45

$250.00
$3,920.00
$600.00
$1,460.60
$94,224.60

1396

The City Record

August 25, 2010

DRAINAGE
ITEM 603 — 4" CONDUIT, TYPE F FOR UNDERDRAIN
14
OUTLETS
ITEM 603 — 12" CONDUIT, TYPE B 706.08, VCP-ES,
15
WITH 706.12 JOINTS, AS PER D-32
16
ITEM 604 — CITY OF CLEVELAND CATCH BASIN
NO. 1, AS PER D-34
ITEM 605 — 4" SHALLOW PIPE UNDERDRAIN
17
WITH FABRIC WRAP

103

LIN. FT.

40

$7.00

$280.00

LIN. FT.

60

$45.00

$2,700.00

3

$1,550.00

$4,650.00

1,593

$7.00

$11,151.00

EACH
LIN. FT.

SUBTOTAL DRAINAGE

$18,781.00

PAVEMENT
18
ITEM 304 — 6" AGGREGATE BASE
ITEM 452 — 8" NON-REINFORCED CONCRETE
19
PAVEMENT, FOR DRIVEWAYS,
AS PER D-23
20
ITEM 452 — 10" NON-REINFORCED CONCRETE
PAVEMENT, AS PER D-23
21
ITEM 609 — CURB, TYPE 3-A, AS PER D-26
ITEM SPECIAL — CONCRETE SEALER, AS PER D-28
22

SQ. YD.

SQ. YD.
SQ. YD.
LIN. FT.
SQ.YD

2,532

$5.50

$13,926.00

185

$50.00

$9,250.00

2,532
1,593
2,532

$47.00
$2.00
$2.50

$119,004.00
$3,186.00
$6,330.00

SUBTOTAL PAVEMENT

$151,696.00

TRAFFIC CONTROL
23
ITEM 646 — CENTER LINE

MILE

0.17

$6,000.00

SUBTOTAL TRAFFIC CONTROL

$1,020.00
$1,020.00

WATERWORK
E-12C1 — Adjust Existing Valve Box to Grade
24
25
E-12C2 — Adjust Existing Curb Shut-off Valve Box
to Grade
26
E-12C3 — Adjust Existing Vault/Manhole Frame and
Cover to Grade

Each

5

$50.00

$250.00

Each

6

$25.00

$150.00

Each

2

$225.00

$450.00

SUBTOTAL WATERWORK

$850.00

TESTING
ITEM SPECIAL — CONCRETE CYLINDER TEST
27
(4 SPECIMENS PER SET),
AS PER D-73
28
ITEM SPECIAL — SUBSEQUENT SLUMP AND
TEMPERATURE TEST, AS PER D-73
29
ITEM SPECIAL — SUBSEQUENT AIR CONTENT AND
TEMPERATURE TEST, AS PER D-73
30
ITEM SPECIAL — FLEXURAL STRENGTH OF
CONCRETE (BEAM) TEST (ASTM C-78),
AS PER D-73
31
ITEM SPECIAL — TECHNICIAN WITH NUCLEAR
DENSITY METER (SUBGRADE
COMPACTION, SUBBASE), AS PER D-73
32
ITEM SPECIAL — PROCTOR TEST, AS PER D-73

SETS

8

$10.00

$80.00

EACH

15

$5.00

$75.00

EACH

8

$5.00

$40.00

EACH

8

$10.00

$80.00

HOUR
EACH

12
8

$15.00
$20.00

$180.00
$160.00

SUBTOTAL TESTING

$615.00

GENERAL
33
ITEM 614 — MAINTAINING TRAFFIC, AS PER PLAN
34
ITEM 623 — CONSTRUCTION LAYOUT STAKES,
AS PER D-47
35
ITEM SPECIAL — RECORD DRAWINGS AS PER DS-1
36
ITEM SPECIAL — PRE-CONSTRUCTION VIDEOGRAPHY,
AS PER D-36

LUMP

LUMP

$500.00

$500.00

LUMP
LUMP

LUMP
LUMP

$5,500.00
$250.00

$5,500.00
$250.00

LUMP

LUMP

$750.00

SUBTOTAL GENERAL

$750.00
$7,000.00

SUBTOTAL OF SUBSIDIARY ITEMS
Subtotal of Subsidiary Items
Contingency Amount from Phase 1
Total Subsidiary Amount
ORIGINAL CONTRACT AMOUNT
TOTAL SUBSIDIARY AMOUNT
NEW CONTRACT AMOUNT

$274,186.60
$274,186.60
- 90,463.25
$183,723.35
$698,343.65
+183,723.35
$882,067.00

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director of Public Service, countersigned by the Mayor,
and consented to by the surety on the contract, which price to be paid has been agreed on in writing and signed
by the Director of Public Service, and the Contractor. This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the
original contract in the sum of $183,723.35, to be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500,
20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, and 20 SF 534, Request No. RQS 4004 RL 2010-147.
Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

1397

104
Ord. No. 1038-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing
Agreement
with
6200
Euclid Avenue, LLC, a real estate
holding company for Royal Ice
Cream Company dba Pierre’s Ice
to
make
real
property
Cream,
improvements needed for the relocation of Pierre’s Ice Cream Company’s manufacturing facility to
6200 Euclid Avenue; to provide for
payments to the Cleveland City
School District; and to declare certain improvements to real property
to be a public purpose.
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, improvements to
real property may be declared to be
a public purpose where fee title to
the real property was, at one time,
held by the City of Cleveland and
the real property is then leased or
conveyed by the City; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 794-10, passed June 7,
2010, and prior to the adoption of
this ordinance, the City approved
both the acquisition and conveyance
of fee title to certain real property,
which is more fully described in the
file below (the “Real Property”);
and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the improvements
declared to be a public purpose may
be exempt from real property taxation; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the owners of the
improvements may be required to
make annual service payments in
lieu of taxes that would have been
paid had the improvement not been
exempt; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the exemption
may exceed 75% of the improvements for up to 30 years when a portion of the service payments so collected are distributed to the Cleveland City School District (“District”)
in an amount equal to the amount
the District would have received
had
the
improvement
not
been
exempt; and
Whereas, the District has been
notified of the intent to enter into
the agreement authorized by this
ordinance in compliance with Sections 5709.41(C)(4) and 5709.83 of
the Revised Code; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the real property
improvements to be constructed by
6200 Euclid Avenue, LLC, a real
estate holding company for Royal
Ice Cream Company, dba Pierre’s
Ice Cream (“Redeveloper”), needed
for the relocation of Pierre’s Ice
Cream
Company’s
manufacturing
facility
to
6200
Euclid
Avenue
(“Improvements”), are declared to
be a public purpose for purposes of
Section 5709.41 of the Revised Code,
and are more fully described in File
No. 1038-10-A.
Section 2. That one hundred percent (100%) of the Improvements
are declared exempt from real property taxation for a period of 30
years; and that in no event shall the
exemption period extend beyond
2040.

The City Record
Section 3. That, under Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code, Redeveloper (or the owners of the
Improvements) shall make service
payments for a period of 30 years in
lieu of the exempt taxes to the
Cuyahoga County Treasurer; the
payments shall be charged and collected in the same manner, and shall
be in an amount not less than the
taxes that would have been paid
had the Improvements not been
exempt from taxation.
Section 4. That a portion of the
service payments collected under
Section 3 of this ordinance shall be
distributed by the Cuyahoga County
Treasurer to the Treasurer of the
District in the amount of the taxes
that would have been payable to the
District had the Improvement not
been exempt from taxation.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement or
agreements with Redeveloper to provide for the exemption and service
payments described in this ordinance, including agreements securing the payments described in Section 3 of this ordinance, which
agreement or agreements shall contain those terms contained the file
mentioned above.
Section 6. That under Section
5709.43 of the Revised Code, there is
established a 6200 Euclid Urban
Redevelopment
Tax
Increment
Equivalent Fund (“6200 Euclid TIF
Fund”) which shall be used as a
debt reserve for the loan authorized
by Ordinance No. 713-10, passed June
7, 2010 or for other economic development purposes as determined by
the Director of Economic Development.
Section 7. That it is found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this ordinance
were adopted in open meetings of
this Council, and any of its committees that resulted in formal action
were in meetings open to the public
in compliance with the law.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1039-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 5 of
Ordinance No. 795-10, passed June 7,
2010, relating to acquiring and reconveying properties for chain-oftitle purposes needed before adopting tax increment financing legislation, by changing the name of LCA
6700 Euclid, LLC to Dunham Square
Land, LLC, or its designee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 5 of Ordinance No. 795-

1398

August 25, 2010
10, passed June 7, 2010, are amended to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire and
re-convey
properties
presently
owned by Dunham Square Land,
LLC, or its designee located on
Euclid Avenue between East 67th
Street and East 69th Street for the
purpose of entering into the chainof-title prior to the adoption of tax
increment
financing
legislation
authorized under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code; and authorizing
an agreement with Dunham Square
Land, LLC, or its designee.
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire from and reconvey to, Dunham Square Land, LLC, or its
designee for a price of one dollar
and other valuable considerations
determined as fair market value, the
following property for the purpose
of entering into the chain-of-title
prior to the adoption of tax increment financial legislation authorized under Section 5709.41 of the
Revised
Code
and
more
fully
described as follows:
SURVEYOR’S LEGAL
DESCRIPTION OF
P.P.N. 118-13-007 through 016
P.P.N. 118-13-018 through 025
P.P.N. 118-13-031 through 033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 338, and
being further bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a p.k. nail set at the
intersection of the centerlines of
Euclid Avenue (width varies) and
East 69th Street (formerly Euclid
Place)(44 feet wide);
Thence
South
01°01'48"
East
along the centerline of East 69th
Street, 40.10 feet;
Thence
North
86°55'34"
West,
22.06 feet to a drill hole set at the
intersection of the westerly right of
way of East 69th Street and the
southerly right of way of Euclid
Avenue and being the PRINCIPAL
PLACE
OF
BEGINNING
of
the
premises herein described;
Thence South 01° 01' 48" East
along the westerly right of way of
East 69th Street, 370.00 feet to a drill
hole set at the northeasterly corner
of land conveyed to northeast corner
of land conveyed to Roderick Nassif
(PPN 118-13-017) by deed recorded in
Auditor’s File Number 20010920811 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence South 88° 58' 12" West
along the northerly line of land so
conveyed, 114.50 feet to a 5/8" x 30"
iron pin set on the northwesterly
corner thereof;
Thence South 01° 01' 48" East
along the westerly line of land so
conveyed, 33.33 feet to a 5/8" x 30"
iron pin set at the southwesterly
corner of land so conveyed to Roderick thereof;
Thence North 88° 58' 12" East
along the southerly line of land so
conveyed, 114.50 feet to a drill hole
set on the westerly right of way of
said East 69th Street;
Thence South 01° 01' 48" East
along the westerly right of way of
East 69th Street, 323.67 feet to a drill
hole set at the northeasterly corner
of land conveyed to Roderick Nassif
(PPN 118-13-026) by deed recorded in

August 25, 2010
Auditor’s File Number 200010301451
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence South 88° 58' 12" West
along the northerly line of land so
conveyed, 114.50 feet to a 5/8" iron
pin set on the easterly line of land
conveyed to Rory Nassif, MD (PPN
118-13-028) by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200010301451 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence North 01° 01' 48" West
along the easterly line of land so
conveyed, 103.74 feet to a 5/8" iron
pin found (0.03 feet north and 0.01
feet east) and being the northeasterly corner of land conveyed to Rory
Nassif M.D. (PPN 118-13-028), said
point being North 01 01' 48" West,
217.00 feet from the northerly right
of way of Carnegie Avenue S. E.
(formerly East Prospect Street) (80
feet wide);
Thence South 88° 13' 51" West
and parallel to Carnegie Avenue S.
E., 148.01 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
at the northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to Aron Crenshaw (P.P.N.
118-13-030) by deed dated December
11, 1986 and recorded in Volume 868053, Page 40 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records;
Thence South 01° 01' 48" East
along the westerly line of land so
conveyed, 217.00 feet to the northerly right of way of said Carnegie
Avenue S.E.;
Thence South 88° 13' 51" West
along the northerly right of way of
said Carnegie Avenue S.E., 182.05
feet to a 5/8" x 30" iron pin set at
the southeasterly corner of land conto
3600
Properties,
LLC
veyed
(P.P.N. 118-13-006) by deed dated
September 12, 2006 and recorded in
Auditor’s File Number 200609120400
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence North 01° 01' 48" West
along the easterly line of land so
conveyed, 230.00 feet to a 5/8" x 30"
iron pin set;
Thence North 88° 13' 51" East
along a southerly line of land so
conveyed, 0.78 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
found (0.01 feet south, 0.11 feet
east);
Thence North 01° 01' 48" West
along the easterly line of land so
conveyed to Woodland-East 39th
Street Corporation (P.P.N. 118-13-005)

The City Record
by deed dated April 27, 2001 and
recorded in Auditor’s File Number
200104271014 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, 646.35 feet to a 5/8"
x 30" iron pin set on the southerly
right of way of said Euclid Avenue;
Thence South 86° 55' 34" East
along southerly right of way of
Euclid Avenue, 131.59 feet to a 5/8"
x 30" iron pin set at the northwesterly corner of land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland by deed recorded
in Volume 4094, Page 230 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence South 01° 01' 48" East
along the westerly line of land so
conveyed to the City of Cleveland,
20.05 feet to 5/8" x 30" iron pin set;
Thence South 86° 55' 34" East
along southerly line of land so conveyed to the City of Cleveland,
198.52 feet to a 5/8" x 30" iron pin
set at the southeasterly corner of
land so conveyed to the City of
Cleveland;
Thence North 01° 01' 48" West
along the easterly line of land so
conveyed to the City of Cleveland,
20.05 feet to a drill hole set on the
southerly right of way of the said
Euclid Avenue;
Thence South 86° 55' 34" East
along the southerly right of way of
Euclid Avenue, 114.79 feet to the
PRINCIPAL
PLACE
OF
BEGINNING, containing 7.5286 acres of
land as surveyed and described by
Edward B. Dudley, Registered Surveyor No. 6747, of the Riverstone
Company in May of 2010 and subject
to all legal highways, restrictions,
reservations
and
easements
of
record.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Dunham Square Land, LLC, or
its designee which shall include the
terms and conditions of the transaction authorized by this ordinance.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 5 of Ordinance
No. 795-10, passed June 7, 2010, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

105
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1040-10.
and
By Council Members Pruitt
Sweeney (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers, Local 439.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B)
of Section 4117.10 of the Revised
Code, this Council approves the collective bargaining agreement with
The International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers,
Local 439, under the terms contained
in File No. 1040-10-A, for the period
from April 1, 2010 through March 31,
2013, and which provides, among
other things, for an increase in the
salaries and wages for members of
the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate
Date of Increase

0%
0%
3%

April 1, 2010
April 1, 2011
April 1, 2012

Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1041-10.
By Council Members Pruitt and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 8 and 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended
by various ordinances, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections:
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 316-09, passed March 16,
2009, Ordinance No. 408-09, passed March 30, 2009, Ordinance No. 778-09, passed June 1, 2009, Ordinance No. 175409, passed November 30, 2009, and Ordinance No. 720-10, passed June 7, 2010; and
Section 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1009-08, passed July 2,
2008, Ordinance No. 316-09, passed March 16, 2009, and Ordinance No. 408-09, passed March 30, 2009, are amended
to read as follows:
Section 8. International Local 100, AFSCME Ohio Council 8 AFL-CIO. That salaries in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Accountant I .................................................................................
Accountant II ...............................................................................
Accountant III..............................................................................
Accountant Clerk I.....................................................................
Accountant Clerk II...................................................................
Activities Therapist ...................................................................
AIDS Support Services Coordinator .....................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer I .........................................

1399

Minimum
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.49
$10.00

Maximum
$19.61
$21.52
$23.86
$15.90
$17.17
$15.11
$16.89
$25.23

106
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.

The City Record
Air Pollution Control Engineer II .......................................
Air Pollution Control Engineer III .....................................
Air Pollution Engineer .............................................................
Air Pollution Inspector I .........................................................
Air Pollution Inspector II .......................................................
Air Pollution Technician I......................................................
Air Pollution Technician II ....................................................
Air Pollution Technician III ..................................................
Airport Information Representative ....................................
Airport Operations Agent I.....................................................
Airport Operations Agent II...................................................
Airport Safety Man ....................................................................
Architect .........................................................................................
Associate Engineer.....................................................................
Assistant Buyer ...........................................................................
Assistant City Planner .............................................................
Assistant Civil Engineer..........................................................
Assistant Electrical Engineer................................................
Assistant Mechanical Engineer .............................................
Assistant Residential Plan Examiner ................................
Associate Programmer ..............................................................
Bacteriologist................................................................................
Bill Collector.................................................................................
Billing Clerk .................................................................................
Building Inspector ......................................................................
Building Inspector I ..................................................................
Building Inspector II ................................................................
Building Inspector III...............................................................
Building Inspector IV ...............................................................
Business Certification Officer ................................................
Camera Room Operator ............................................................
Caseworker I ................................................................................
Caseworker II ..............................................................................
Cashier/Starter .............................................................................
Chemist ...........................................................................................
Chief Miscellaneous Investigator..........................................
Citizens Information Representative...................................
Civil Engineer ..............................................................................
Claims Examiner.........................................................................
Clerk Typist..................................................................................
Clinical Laboratory Assistant ................................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician I .........................................
Clinical Laboratory Technician II .......................................
Cocaine Treatment Counselor I ............................................
Cocaine Intake Specialist ........................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration I.....................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration II ...................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Refrigeration III .................................................
Community Development Code Enforcement
Inspector/Trainee....................................................................
Community Development Planner ........................................
Community Health Aide...........................................................
Community Relations Representative I .............................
Community Relations Representative II ...........................
Community Relations Representative III..........................
Composing Equipment Operator............................................
Computer Monitor Assistant ...................................................
Computer Operator......................................................................
Construction Technician...........................................................
Consumer Protection Specialist .............................................
Contract and Monitoring Specialist .....................................
Cook .................................................................................................
Copy Center Operator................................................................
Cost Construction Estimator...................................................
Customer Service Representative .........................................
Data Control Clerk.....................................................................
Data Conversion Operator .......................................................
Dental Assistant ..........................................................................
Development Officer ..................................................................
Dietician .........................................................................................
Disease Surveillance Specialist .............................................

1400

August 25, 2010
$10.00
$10.00
$12.04
$12.12
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.02
$14.14
$17.77
$14.19
$10.00
$17.83
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$13.42
$10.00
$10.00
$10.02
$10.00
$14.26
$14.08
$14.89
$15.70
$26.35
$11.15
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00

$26.59
$28.02
$19.70
$20.29
$22.64
$21.52
$22.64
$25.23
$16.48
$20.37
$23.98
$23.93
$29.66
$27.74
$20.59
$21.52
$21.52
$21.52
$21.52
$22.64
$23.05
$23.86
$16.48
$16.47
$21.88
$23.88
$25.23
$26.59
$27.97
$33.01
$18.73
$17.89
$19.61
$19.62
$26.07
$22.64
$18.73
$29.66
$22.64
$12.29
$18.73
$21.52
$23.05
$17.82
$16.03

$14.05

$23.88

$14.89

$25.23

$15.70

$26.59

$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$12.02
$10.00
$10.00
$11.38
$10.00
$10.00
$10.03
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.42

$19.74
$28.54
$15.89
$18.73
$22.64
$28.02
$20.59
$13.61
$22.64
$22.64
$17.89
$23.95
$15.48
$18.19
$22.04
$17.16
$16.49
$14.94
$15.58
$26.58
$19.61
$31.54

August 25, 2010
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.
151.
152.

The City Record

Drug and Alcohol Counselor ..................................................
Electrical Engineer ....................................................................
Electronic Engineer ...................................................................
Elevator Inspector ......................................................................
Engineer .........................................................................................
Environmental Compliance Specialist I .............................
Environmental Compliance Specialist II ...........................
Environmental Compliance Specialist III .........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist I...........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist II.........................
Environmental Enforcement Specialist III .......................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist I ..............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist II ............................
Environmental Monitoring Specialist III...........................
Environmental Technician ......................................................
Family Planning Clerk.............................................................
Financial Analyst .......................................................................
Financial Counselor ...................................................................
First Press Operator ..................................................................
Fuel System Technician...........................................................
General Health Aide..................................................................
General Storekeeper ...................................................................
Geriatric Outreach Worker .....................................................
Hardware Analyst ......................................................................
Hazardous Material Specialist ...............................................
Head Cook .....................................................................................
Head Storekeeper ........................................................................
Health Educator I ......................................................................
Health Educator II ....................................................................
Heating Inspector .......................................................................
Help Desk Analyst.....................................................................
HIV Educator ...............................................................................
Home Maintenance Aide ..........................................................
House Connection Inspector ...................................................
Residential Building Inspector ..............................................
Human Resources Contract Specialist ................................
Human Resources On-the-Job Training Specialist .........
Human Resources Planner ......................................................
Human Resources Special Projects Coordinator.............
Income Tax Tracer ....................................................................
Industrial Hygiene Engineer .................................................
Industrial Nuisance Inspector ................................................
Information Control Analyst ..................................................
Inspector of Weight and Measures .....................................
Instrumentation Technician I ................................................
Instrumentation Technician II ..............................................
Instrument Repairman ..............................................................
Intake Specialist .........................................................................
Interim Building Inspector .....................................................
Interim Mechanical Inspector ................................................
Interim Residential Building Inspector .............................
Interim Residential Plan Examiner ....................................
Job Retraining Assistant .........................................................
Junior Cashier..............................................................................
Junior Chemist .............................................................................
Junior City Planner ...................................................................
Junior Civil Engineer ...............................................................
Junior Clerk ..................................................................................
Junior Draftsman........................................................................
Junior Engineering Aide .........................................................
Lab Coordinator...........................................................................
Laboratory Assistant .................................................................
Laboratory Helper ......................................................................
Landscape Architect...................................................................
Lead Pressman.............................................................................
Life Guard .....................................................................................
Life Guard Captain ....................................................................
Mechanical Engineer .................................................................
Mechanical Inspector I .............................................................
Mechanical Inspector II ...........................................................
Mechanical Inspector III..........................................................
Medical Billing Reimbursement Specialist .......................
Medical Coder and Billing Analyst .....................................
Messenger.......................................................................................

1401

107
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.23
$22.78
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$14.95
$16.35
$17.90
$13.33
$14.18
$15.74
$12.35
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$12.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.48
$21.63
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.23
$12.02
$10.00
$10.00
$12.70
$14.60
$10.00
$10.21
$10.74
$10.21
$10.04
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$16.87
$18.83
$10.00
$10.00
$19.00
$19.00
$15.75
$20.25
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$16.82
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.08
$14.89
$15.70
$10.42
$10.17
$10.00

$14.58
$29.66
$30.20
$24.00
$33.78
$22.55
$23.62
$30.39
$23.48
$24.60
$25.80
$23.28
$24.37
$25.53
$17.91
$13.74
$21.52
$22.64
$21.60
$19.99
$15.90
$24.24
$21.52
$49.45
$31.70
$17.14
$22.39
$19.62
$21.52
$21.88
$24.59
$12.53
$15.89
$18.29
$20.46
$29.65
$25.21
$31.32
$25.21
$17.34
$29.65
$19.62
$20.53
$17.38
$21.07
$23.22
$20.75
$15.90
$19.77
$19.77
$16.39
$21.07
$21.52
$16.48
$17.17
$19.62
$19.62
$13.73
$16.84
$17.17
$26.10
$18.73
$14.80
$28.02
$21.83
$15.69
$19.43
$29.65
$23.88
$25.23
$26.59
$21.42
$22.07
$14.80

108
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.
161.
162.
163.
164.
165.
166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.

The City Record
Meter Reader ................................................................................
Miscellaneous Investigator ......................................................
Monitoring, Auditing and Evaluation
Coordinator ................................................................................
Network Analyst I......................................................................
Office Machine Operator ..........................................................
On The Job Training Specialist ...........................................
Park and Recreation Planner ................................................
Parking Attendant......................................................................
Parking Meter Collector...........................................................
Parking Meter Serviceman......................................................
Permit Processing Specialist ..................................................
Pharmacist .....................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation
Counselor I ................................................................................
Pharmacodependent Rehabilitation
Counselor II ..............................................................................
Photographer ................................................................................
Photographic Laboratory Technician..................................
Photo-Litho Operator..................................................................
Physical Director I.....................................................................
Physical Director II...................................................................
Residential Plan Examiner.....................................................
Play Director ................................................................................
Police Data Specialist ...............................................................
Police Radio Technician ..........................................................
Pressman ........................................................................................
Preventive Health Counselor..................................................
Preventive Health Educator ...................................................
Principal Cashier ........................................................................
Principal Clerk ............................................................................
Print Shop Helper.......................................................................
Private Secretary ........................................................................
Program Analyst .........................................................................
Programmer...................................................................................
Programmer Analyst..................................................................
Property Clerk .............................................................................
Psychiatric Social Worker.......................................................
Psychologist I ..............................................................................
Psychologist II.............................................................................
Public Health Nursing Aide ...................................................
Public Health Sanitarian I .....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian II....................................................
Public Health Sanitarian III..................................................
Public Health Sanitarian IV ..................................................
Public Information Officer ......................................................
Quality Assurance Analyst .....................................................
Quality Control Coordinator ...................................................
Radio Dispatcher.........................................................................
Radio Technician ........................................................................
Receptionist ...................................................................................
Records Manager ........................................................................
Recreation Aide ...........................................................................
Recreation Instructor ................................................................
Recreation Instructor I.............................................................
Recreation Instructor II ...........................................................
Recreation Instructor III .........................................................
Recreation Program Supervisor ............................................
Redevelopment Advisor ............................................................
Redevelopment Coordinator ....................................................
Refrigeration Inspector ............................................................
Refugee Outreach Worker.......................................................
Registered Animal Health Technician ...............................
Rehabilitation Advisor ..............................................................
Rehabilitation Inspector ...........................................................
Sanitarian Aide ............................................................................
Second Press Operator ..............................................................
Secretary.........................................................................................
Secretary to Director of Consumer Affairs ......................
Senior Assistant Architect.......................................................
Senior Assistant City Planner ...............................................
Senior Assistant Civil Engineer ...........................................
Senior Assistant Electrical Engineer..................................
Senior Assistant Mechanical Engineer...............................

1402

August 25, 2010
$12.82
$10.00

$18.71
$18.08

$13.65
$14.52
$10.00
$12.71
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$13.62
$10.00
$10.74

$21.85
$34.25
$14.39
$21.11
$28.02
$15.90
$15.87
$16.69
$13.32
$31.31

$10.00

$15.20

$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$16.38
$10.00
$13.59
$10.00
$10.00
$11.93
$10.61
$10.00
$16.64
$10.00
$10.00
$11.37
$12.48
$10.74
$12.88
$10.63
$12.78
$14.35
$15.49
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$16.82
$17.33
$16.38
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.26
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$14.60
$11.62
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00

$17.95
$21.52
$18.73
$17.17
$19.35
$20.88
$25.59
$13.57
$17.90
$20.38
$21.12
$21.89
$14.71
$23.05
$19.51
$14.52
$20.59
$29.84
$26.59
$29.84
$33.04
$21.46
$28.55
$33.65
$13.71
$21.25
$22.91
$24.05
$29.55
$22.64
$26.58
$26.11
$20.38
$20.38
$15.16
$15.89
$10.93
$15.90
$16.94
$17.58
$18.60
$17.30
$23.87
$26.59
$21.88
$14.79
$15.90
$20.59
$26.57
$15.42
$19.32
$17.17
$28.02
$23.87
$23.87
$23.87
$23.87
$23.87

August 25, 2010
224.
225.
226.
227.
228.
229.
230.
231.
232.
233.
234.
235.
236.
237.
238.
239.
240.
241.
242.
243.
244.
245.
246.
247.
248.
249.
250.
251.
252.
253.
254.
255.
256.
257.
258.
259.
260.
261.
262.
263.
264.
265.
266.
267.
268.
269.
270.
271.
272.
273.

The City Record

Senior Assistant Traffic Engineer .......................................
Senior Bacteriologist..................................................................
Senior Cashier ..............................................................................
Senior Chemist .............................................................................
Senior Clerk ..................................................................................
Senior Computer Operator .......................................................
Senior Contract and Monitoring Specialist .......................
Senior Data Conversion Operator .........................................
Senior Development Officer ....................................................
Senior Draftsman ........................................................................
Senior Engineering Draftsman and
Photographer ............................................................................
Senior Information Control Analyst ....................................
Senior Laboratory Technician................................................
Senior Landscape Architect ....................................................
Senior Site Inspector – Demolition ......................................
Sewer Service Man .....................................................................
Site Inspector................................................................................
Social Worker for Homeless ..................................................
Starter (Golf) ...............................................................................
S.T.D. Clerk ...................................................................................
Stenographer I .............................................................................
Stenographer II............................................................................
Stenographer III..........................................................................
Stock Clerk....................................................................................
Storekeeper ....................................................................................
Street Obstruction Inspector ...................................................
Surveyor..........................................................................................
Tax Auditor I...............................................................................
Tax Auditor II .............................................................................
Technical Specialist ...................................................................
Technical Specifications Writer ............................................
Telecommunications Analyst I ..............................................
Telephone Operator ....................................................................
Telephone Supervisor ................................................................
Timekeeper ....................................................................................
Traffic Engineer .........................................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Technician ...............................
Trainee Building Inspector .....................................................
Trainee Residential Plan Examiner ...................................
Typist ..............................................................................................
Urban Planning and Development Technician ...............
Utility Adjuster............................................................................
Vector Control Assistant ..........................................................
Veteran’s Counselor ...................................................................
Water Hydraulic Repairman ..................................................
Water Meter Repairman ..........................................................
Water Pipe Repairman .............................................................
Water Serviceman.......................................................................
Water System Construction Inspector ................................
Web Content Editor ...................................................................

109
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.29
$10.00
$11.34
$10.80
$12.63
$10.00

$23.87
$20.59
$19.61
$22.64
$16.10
$26.59
$28.18
$17.90
$34.88
$19.24

$10.00
$10.00
$10.86
$10.00
$10.00
$14.99
$10.00
$13.82
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.77
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.60
$12.41
$10.00
$10.00
$14.53
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00
$13.68
$18.60
$18.25
$10.00
$10.00
$10.64
$10.00
$10.00
$14.99
$14.99
$13.58
$10.00
$15.67
$10.00

$21.52
$22.64
$17.51
$29.65
$25.21
$18.71
$22.64
$22.27
$13.16
$12.71
$14.42
$16.10
$17.89
$17.70
$20.16
$18.73
$26.59
$18.20
$20.13
$22.64
$23.88
$41.21
$16.48
$17.17
$17.17
$28.02
$17.17
$19.74
$20.51
$14.94
$14.95
$16.10
$14.33
$19.49
$18.71
$18.71
$20.51
$15.98
$23.38
$28.90

Section 24. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:
Minimum

Maximum

1.

Apprentice Cable Splicer..........................................................

$22.22

$24.89

2.

Apprentice Lineman ...................................................................

$22.39

$25.07

3.

Cable Foreman .............................................................................

$31.45

$33.25

4.

Cable Splicer .................................................................................

$17.46

$27.87

5.

Cable Splicer Helper..................................................................

$20.44

$24.24

6.

Cable Splicer I .............................................................................

$28.15

$29.82

7.

Cable Splicer II ...........................................................................

$17.14

$27.35

8.

Dispatcher Electric System Operator ..................................

$26.52

$28.91

9.

Electric Meter Industrial Installer ......................................

$28.05

$29.71

10.

Electric Meter Instrument Specialist and
General Tester .........................................................................

$28.37

$30.04

11.

Electric Meter Service Foremen............................................

$31.45

$33.25

12.

Electric Meter Service Installer I ........................................

$26.12

$28.24

13.

Electric Meter Service Installer II ......................................

$24.35

$25.86

14.

Electric Meterman Apprentice ...............................................

$21.91

$24.52

1403

110

The City Record

August 25, 2010

15.

Electric Motor and Transformer Repairman ...................

$17.38

$27.70

16.

Electric Switchboard Operator Foreman ...........................

$31.45

$33.25

17.

Electric Transmission and Distribution Inspector.........

$28.15

$30.36

18.

Foreman Low Tension ..............................................................

$30.91

$32.68

19.

Gas Turbine Mechanic ..............................................................

$17.38

$28.23

20.

Gas Turbine Mechanic Apprentice .......................................

$22.22

$24.89

21.

Interim Apprentice .....................................................................

$10.00

$31.38

22.

Junior Electric Switchboard Operator ................................

$22.36

$23.80

23.

Line Clearance Man ...................................................................

$22.00

$24.72

24.

Line Foreman ...............................................................................

$31.45

$34.03

25.

Line Helper Driver.....................................................................

$17.73

$24.25

26.

Line Switchman ...........................................................................

$30.16

$32.69

27.

Leader Lineman Low-Tension ................................................

$29.99

$31.73

28.

Lineman ..........................................................................................

$28.15

$29.82

29.

Lineman Leader...........................................................................

$26.27

$27.86

30.

Low Tension Lineman ..............................................................

$29.99

$31.73

31.

Low Tension Lineman Apprentice .......................................

$21.95

$24.19

32.

Low Tension Trouble Lineman .............................................

$29.40

$31.11

33.

Police Division Trouble Lineman.........................................

$19.19

$30.56

34.

Safety Signal Trouble Lineman ............................................

$19.19

$30.56

35.

Senior Cable Splicer...................................................................

$29.65

$31.38

36.

Senior Electric Switchboard Operator.................................

$24.63

$26.16

37.

Senior Lineman ............................................................................

$29.65

$31.38

38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.

Signal System Powerman ........................................................
Telecommunications Technician ...........................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician .......................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician 2 ...................................
Transformer Repairman Foreman........................................
Trouble Lineman.........................................................................
Underground Conduit Foreman .............................................

$19.54
$29.40
$31.11
$30.60
$31.45
$29.65
$31.45

$31.12
$31.11
$32.90
$32.36
$33.25
$32.42
$33.25

Section 2. That the following existing sections:
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 316-09, passed March 16,
2009, Ordinance No. 408-09, passed March 30, 2009, Ordinance No. 778-09, passed June 1, 2009, Ordinance No. 175409, passed November 30, 2009, and Ordinance No. 720-10, passed June 7, 2010; and
Section 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1009-08, passed July 2,
2008, Ordinance No. 316-09, passed March 16, 2009, and Ordinance No. 408-09, passed March 30, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1042-10.
By Council Members Pruitt and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 45 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by various
ordinance, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 45 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 316-09,
passed March 16, 2009, Ordinance No. 1265-09, passed September 14, 2009, and Ordinance No. 1753-09, passed November 30, 2009, is amended to read as follows:
Section 45. Hourly Rate – Building & Construction Trades Council
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Asbestos Worker .........................................................................
Boiler Maker .................................................................................
Bricklayer ......................................................................................
Bricklayer Foreman ...................................................................
Carpenter ........................................................................................
Carpenter Foreman.....................................................................
Carpenter Apprentice.................................................................
Cement Finisher ..........................................................................
Cement Finisher Foreman.......................................................
Electrical Worker .......................................................................

1404

Effective
Date
5/1/10
7/1/10
5/1/09
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10

Minimum
$40.40
$43.57
$34.19
$35.44
$33.88
$35.13
$14.45
$34.41
$35.66
$41.84

Maximum
$50.50
$54.46
$42.74
$43.74
$42.35
$42.35
$18.06
$43.01
$43.76
$52.30

August 25, 2010
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

The City Record

Electrical Worker Foreman ....................................................
Glazier .............................................................................................
Ironworker .....................................................................................
Ironworker Foreman..................................................................
Painter.............................................................................................
Painter – Apprentice .................................................................
Painter Foreman .........................................................................
Pipefitter (Welder) ....................................................................
Pipefitter Foreman .....................................................................
Plasterer .........................................................................................
Plasterer Foreman ......................................................................
Plumber (Welder).......................................................................
Plumber Foreman .......................................................................
Roofer ..............................................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker ...................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman................................................

111
5/1/10
5/1/10
8/1/10
8/1/10
6/1/10
6/1/10
6/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10
5/1/10

$43.09
$33.06
$38.29
$39.54
$30.02
$14.46
$31.27
$40.42
$40.67
$33.45
$34.70
$41.34
$42.59
$34.60
$40.18
$41.43

$52.30
$41.32
$47.86
$50.36
$37.53
$18.06
$39.02
$50.52
$41.67
$41.81
$42.81
$51.68
$53.18
$43.25
$50.23
$50.23

Section 2. That Section 45 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 316-09,
passed March 16, 2009, Ordinance No. 1265-09, passed September 14, 2009, and Ordinance No. 1753-09, passed November 30, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1043-10.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 10-10,
passed March 22, 2010, relating to
the 2009 Buffer Zone Protection Program and related contracts; to supplement the ordinance by adding
new Sections 7, 8, and 9; and to
renumber existing Section 7 to new
Section 10.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title of Ordinance No. 10-10, passed March 22,
2010, is amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety for the 2009 Buffer Zone Protection Program; authorizing the Director to enter into one or more requirement contracts for the purchase of
materials, equipment, supplies, services and training needed to implement the grant; authorizing the
Director to employ one or more professional consultants; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with Cuyahoga County to implement the grant, for the
Department of Public Safety.
Section 2. That the existing title
of Ordinance No. 10-10, passed March
22, 2010, is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 1010, passed March 22, 2010 is supplemented by adding new Sections 7, 8,
and 9 to read as follows:
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant term for the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies, services and training, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Public

Safety. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the requirements for the entire term.
Section 8. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 9. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Safety may sign all documents that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That Section 7 of Ordinance No. 10-10, passed March 22,
2010, is renumbered to new “Section
10”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1044-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).

1405

An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 797-10,
passed June 7, 2010, relating to the
exchange of real property between
the City and Pyrrhus, Inc. and
Borchert Fence Co. necessary for the
of
the
Green
City
development
Growers Greenhouse project; and to
renumber duplicate Sections 3, 4, 5,
and 6 of Ordinance No. 797-10, to new
Sections 5, 6, 7, and 8.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 797-10, passed June 7, 2010,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Directors of Economic Development, Community Development, and the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies are authorized to enter into one or more
agreements for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland with Pyrrhus, Inc.
providing for the exchange of real
property, including transfer of fee
title to Pyrrhus, Inc. for the development of the Green Growers Greenhouse project of some or all of the
following described City property:
Permanent Parcel Nos. 124-12-009 to
124-12-011, 124-12-012, 124-12-013, 12412-015, 124-12-020, 124-12-027, 124-12038 to 124-12-041, 124-12-048, 124-10049, and 124-12-089 to 092.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 797-10, passed June
7, 2010, is repealed.
Section 3. That, provided the City
of Cleveland cannot make an even
exchange with Pyrrhus, Inc. or
Borchert Fence Co. of the properties
listed
in
Ordinance
No.
797-10,
passed June 7, 2010, as amended by
this ordinance, and notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase any of the properties list-

112
ed in Ordinance No. 797-10, passed
June 7, 2010, as amended by this
ordinance necessary for the development of the Green City Growers
Greenhouse project.
Section 4. That, provided the City
of Cleveland cannot make an even
exchange with Pyrrhus, Inc. or Borchert Fence Co. of the properties
listed in Ordinance No. 797-10, passed
June 7, 2010, as amended by this
ordinance, the Director of Economic
Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire the properties and to employ
and pay all fees for title companies,
surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and all other costs
necessary for the acquisition of the
property.
Section 5. That, provided the City
of Cleveland cannot make an even
exchange with Pyrrhus, Inc. or
Borchert Fence Co. of the properties
listed
in
Ordinance
No.
797-10,
passed June 7, 2010, as amended by
this ordinance, the consideration to
be paid for the property shall not
exceed fair market value as determined by the Board of Control.
Section 6. That all costs of acquisition of land under Ordinance No.
797-10, passed June 7, 2010, as
amended by this ordinance shall be
paid from Fund No. 17 SF 965.
Section 7. That existing duplicate
Sections 3, 4, 5, and 6 of Ordinance
No. 797-10, passed June 7, 2010, are
renumbered to new “Section 5”, “Section 6”, “Section 7”, and “Section 8”.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1045-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more
contracts with Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc. to provide financial assistance to support the acquisition, rehabilitation and sale of up
to 47 vacant townhouse units in the
Hill Place townhome project located
at the southwest corner of East 75th
Street and Woodland Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. to provide financial
assistance to support the acquisition, rehabilitation and sale of up to
47 vacant townhouse units in the
Hill Place townhome project located
at the southwest corner of East 75th
Street and Woodland Avenue.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loans shall be determined by the

The City Record
Director of Community Development
in accordance with Federal regulations, State, and local laws, and the
director is authorized to amend the
terms, from time to time, as the
director deems necessary to remain
consistent with the laws and regulations.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept collateral as the
director deems adequate in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
and all security instrument agreements or other agreements shall be
prepared and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 14.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under federal regulations and expend the fees to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
the loan application, closing, and
servicing of the loan.
Section 6. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contract and any other documents as
may be appropriate to complete the
transactions.
Section 7. That the total cost of
the contract or contracts may not
exceed $950,000 and shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 14 SF 032, 19 SF 600
and 19 SF 640, Request No. RQS 8006
RL 2010-153.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1047-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
K. Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
at East 73rd Street and Carson
Avenue to Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Authority, for purposes of
residential redevelopment.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties has requested the sale of the City-owned
property to Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Agency (the “Redeveloper”)
no longer needed for public use and
located at East 73rd Street and Carson Avenue for purposes of residential development; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for
public use:

1406

August 25, 2010
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF
CONVEYANCE PARCEL
BEING PART OF
CITY OF CLEVELAND
P.P.N. 125-13-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
the County of Cuyahoga and the
State of Ohio and known as being
part of Original 100 Acre Lot Nos.
326 and 327 and further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the centerlines of East 73rd Street
(60 feet wide) and Carson Avenue
(Width Varies);
Thence along the westerly curved
centerline of Carson Avenue deflecting to the right, an arc of 109.12
feet, said curve having a radius of
770.26 feet and a chord that bears
North 59° 43' 25" West, 109.03 feet
to an iron pin found (0.12 feet North
and 0.17 feet West);
Thence North 55° 42' 43" West
continuing along the centerline of
Carson Avenue, 52.06 feet to a 1"
iron pin found at a point of curvature;
continuing
along
the
Thence
curved centerline of Carson Avenue
deflecting to the left, an arc of
143.59 feet, said curve having a
radius of 424.12 feet and a chord
that bears North 65° 24' 40" West,
142.91 feet to a point;
Thence North 15° 03' 06" East,
33.00 feet to a point on the northerly right-of-way of Carson Avenue
and at the Principal Place of Beginning
of
the
premises
herein
described;
Thence Westerly along the curved
northerly right-of-way of Carson
Avenue deflecting to the left, an arc
of 188.85 feet, said curve having a
radius of 457.12 feet and a chord
that bears North 86° 56' 03" West,
187.51 feet to a point;
Thence
along
a
curved
line
deflecting to the left, an arc of
207.10 feet, said curve having a
radius of 750.00 feet and a chord
that bears North 18° 31' 33" West,
206.44 feet to a point;
Thence North 00° 24' 43" West,
260.65 feet to a point;
Thence South 49° 44' 09" East,
357.58 feet to a point on the rightof-way of East 72nd Street (60 feet
wide) as Vacated by Ordinance No.
1094-59;
Thence North 89° 35' 17" East,
30.00 feet to the centerline of vacated East 72nd Street;
Thence South 00° 24' 43" East,
55.00 feet to the northeasterly corner
of land conveyed to the Cuyahoga
Metropolitan
Housing
Authority
(Parcel 2) (PPN 125-13-004) recorded
in Volume 13335, Page 997 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence South 15° 03' 06" West
along the westerly line of lands so
conveyed, 186.93 feet to the northerly right-of-way of Carson Avenue
and the Principal Place of Beginning and containing 2.0121 acres of
land as surveyed and described by
Edward Dudley of the Riverstone
Company in May, 2010, be the same,
more or less but subject to all legal
highways, restrictions, reservations
and easements of record.
Basis of Bearing:
The centerline of Kinsman Road
as North 56° 41' 18" West as shown
on the Dedication Map of Garden
Valley Avenue S.E., Carson Avenue
S.E., Extension of Part Avenue S.E.,
Relocation of East 77th Street and
East 78th Street, Widening of East
73rd Street, East 77th Street and
East 79th Street as recorded in Volume 200, Page 3 and 4 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records.

August 25, 2010
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
property
to
the
above-described
Redeveloper at a price not less than
fair market value as determined by
the Board of Control, taking into
account all restrictions, reversionary
interests and similar encumbrances
placed by the City of Cleveland in
the deed of conveyance.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1049-10.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Economic Development to enter
into an agreement with the Reflections Beauty Salon for the exterior
and interior building renovation
through the use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement
with
the
Reflections
Beauty Salon located at 11506 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio for the
exterior and interior building renovation for the public purpose of promoting economic development and
new job creation in the city of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
9 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $15,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1050-10.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to change
the name of Fairview Court to Farinacci Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, 1976, the name of Fairview
Court is hereby changed to “Farinacci Court”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1051-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with the Capuchin
Franciscan Volunteer Corps for the
Cap
Corps
Internship
Program
through the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community development be authorized to enter into an
agreement effective August 14, 2010
with the Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps for the for the Cap Corps
Internship Program for the public
purpose of providing interns to serve
the elderly population that is residing
in the city of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $12,600 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

1407

113
Ord. No. 1052-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and Directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to the
Union Miles Development Corporation
to affix vertical banners around
Warner Avenue from Webb Terrace
to Connecticut Avenue and East 131st
Street from Angelus Avenue to Southview Avenue, for the period from
August 1, 2010 through August 16,
2010, inclusive publicizing “Ward 2
Community Expo.”
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Director of the Department
of Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to issue a permit to the
Union Miles Development Corporation
to install, maintain and remove vertical banners around Warner Avenue
from Webb Terrace to Connecticut
Avenue and East 131st Street from
Angelus Avenue to Southview Avenue, for the period from August 1,
2010 through August 16, 2010, inclusive. Said banners shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere
with any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner will
be hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial
advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed promptly upon
the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

Ord. No. 1105-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community Development and Economic Development to enter into one or more
amendments to Contract No. 53646
with Otis Associates Limited Partnership to accept a discount pay off
of the NDIF Loan regarding the
acquisition and rehabilitation of the
Bridgeview Apartments into rental
housing.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 91498, passed July 29, 1998, as amended by Ordinance No. 1231-01, passed
August 22, 2001, and Ordinance No.
232-05, passed April 25, 2005, this
Council authorized the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development to enter into a
Neighborhood Development Investment Fund contract with Otis Associates Limited Partnership (“Otis
Associates”) to provide economic
development assistance to renovate
the Bridgeview Apartments, located

The City Record

114
at 1300 West 9th Street, into rental
housing; and
Whereas, Otis Associates has requested the opportunity to pay off
their outstanding balance at its net
present value using a discount rate
of ten and one-half percent (10.5%);
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development are authorized
to enter into one or more amendments to Contract No. 53646 with
Otis Associates Limited Partnership
to accept a discount pay off of the
NDIF Loan regarding the acquisiand
rehabilitation
of
the
tion
Bridgeview Apartments into rental
housing.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development are authorized
to accept on behalf of the City, a
$847,985.45 discounted pay off from
Otis Associates, to be paid to the
City, with that amount being equal
to the net present value of the NDIF
loan using a discount rate equal to
ten and one-half percent (10.5%) in
full satisfaction of the loan currently due December 31, 2021, which
loan was originally made to partially finance the acquisition and
rehabilitation of the Bridgeview
into
rental
housing.
Apartments
That the Directors of Community
Development and Economic Development are authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the pay off.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contract amendment or amendments
and other documents necessary to
effectuate this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development are authorized
to release any and all collateral
taken to secure repayment of the
loan and to execute all documents
necessary to release the collateral.
Any release of security instruments
shall be prepared and approved by
the Director of Law.

Section 5. That the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development are authorized
to deposit the prepayment into Fund
No. 10 SF 502, NDIF Repayment
Fund.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 18, 2010.
Effective August 20, 2010.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Wednesday August 18, 2010
10:00 a.m.
Legislation Committee & Finance
Committee: Present in Legislation:
Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson, Vice
Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Chair;
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney. Pro tempore: Brady.
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Present
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook. Pro tempore: K. Johnson.
Community and Economic Development Committee, Legislation Committee, & Finance Committee: Present in CDED: Brancatelli, Chair;
Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt,
Zone.
Pro
tempore:
Westbrook,
Keane, Mitchell, K. Johnson.
Present in Legislation: Mitchell,
Chair; K. Johnson, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Reed,
Sweeney. Pro tempore: Brady.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook. Pro tempore: K. Johnson.
Finance Committee: Present in
Finance: Sweeney, Chair; Kelley,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Keane, Miller, Mitchell,

August 25, 2010
Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
tempore: K. Johnson.

Pro

Planning
Committee
&
City
Finance Committee: Present in Planning: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane Zone.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook. Pro tempore: K. Johnson.
Public
Utilities
Committee
&
Finance Committee: Present in Utilities: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Conwell,
Cummins,
Dow,
Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
Pro tempore: K. Johnson.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady,
Cleveland,
Keane,
Brancatelli,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook. Pro tempore: K. Johnson.
Aviation and Transportation Committee, City Planning Committee,
Legislation Committee, & Finance
Committee:
Present
in
Aviation:
Keane, Chair; Pruitt, Chair, Cummins, K. Johnson, J. Johnson, Kelley Mitchell.
Present in Planning: Cleveland,
Westbrook,
Vice
Chair;
Chair;
Brady, Conwell, Dow, Keane Zone.
Present in Legislation: Mitchell,
Chair; K. Johnson, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Reed,
Sweeney. Pro tempore: Brady.
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Present
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook. Pro tempore: K. Johnson.
Public Service Committee, City
Planning
Committee,
&
Finance
Committee:
Present
in
Service:
Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson, Keane,
Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney. Pro tempore: Kelley.
Present in Planning: Cleveland,
Chair;
Westbrook,
Vice
Chair;
Brady, Conwell, Dow, Keane Zone.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook. Pro tempore: K. Johnson.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Cap Corps Internship Program — Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps
(Ward 1 NCF) (O 1051-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407
Consent agreement Cedar Road Bridge (O 652-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1376
Economic Development — Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 797-10 — Pyrrhus, Inc. & Borchert Fence
Co. — property swap — Greenhouse (O 1044-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318-1405
Economic Development — Reflections Beauty Salon — building renovation (Ward 09 NCF)
(O 1049-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1319-1407
Economic Development — TIF — 6200 Euclid Ave. (Pierre’s Ice Cream) (O 1038-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1310-1398
Utilities Department — TRI-C’s Smart Grid Technology training program (O 1028-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1299

Annual Reports
2010 & 2011 Annual Reports — professional services — Utilities Department (O 1026-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298

1408

August 25, 2010

The City Record

115

Appreciation Resolutions
Dempsey, Amanda (R 1177-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Dix, Jr., Pastor Robert M. (R 1176-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Williams, Olivia Maxine (R 1175-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298

Banners
The City Mission — Puritas Ave. — utility poles — Service Department (Ward 19) (O 877-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1388
Union Miles Development Corporation — various location — Aug. 1 to Aug. 16th — Community
Expo — Service Department (Ward 02) (O 1052-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Ansel Road, 1442, (Ward 7) — Gaynell C. Sims-Jones, owner — appeal adopted on
8/18/10 (Doc. A-399-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Benham Avenue, 9511, (Ward 5) — Romello’s Investment Group Inc., owner — appeal adopted
on 8/18/10 (Doc. A-102-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bonna Avenue, 6607, (Ward 7) — U.S. Bank, N.A., successor by merger to the Leader
Mortgage Co., Mortgagee — appeal resolved on 8/18/10 (Doc. A-124-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Avenue, 7219, (Ward 5) — Junior Jay, owner — appeal adopted on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-112-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crestwood Avenue, 10739, (Ward 6) — Sheo Narayan Prasad, owner — appeal resolved on
8/18/10 (Doc. A-123-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dove Avenue, 11912, (Ward 2) — Jennifer J. Poe, owner — appeal adopted on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-113-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 107th Street, 665, (Ward 8) — Anthony Whitt, owner — appeal adopted on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-110-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 114th Street, 2886, (Ward 4) — AAA Cleaning Painting & Pressure Washing LLC, owner —
appeal adopted on 8/18/10 (Doc. A-108-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th Street, 2991, (Ward 4) — Ireda Brent, owner — appeal adopted on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-103-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th Street, 3371, (Ward 4) — Tito M. Bradley, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-116-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 121st Street, 3204, (Ward 4) — Stephen T. Farris, owner — appeal amended on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-106-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 3070, (Ward 4) — Dorris Diamond, owner — appeal postponed for a later
date on 8/18/10 (Doc. A-122-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 3183, (Ward 4) — Verlyn Salters, owner — appeal adopted on
8/18/10 (Doc. A-104-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 3231, (Ward 4) — Verlyn Salters, owner — appeal adopted on
8/18/10 (Doc. A-105-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th Street, 949, (Ward 10) — Csaba Varga, owner — appeal amended on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-79-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 141st Street, 4050, (Ward 1) — Gwendolyn Burtin, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-184-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street, 363, (Ward 10) — Nicole Wright, owner — appeal adopted on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-101-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 174th Street, 1440, (Ward 11) — Gregory W. Davies, owner — appeal adopted on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-99-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 66th Street, 1142, (Ward 7) — Kenneth & Sharon Davis, owner — appeal adopted
on 8/18/10 (Doc. A-100-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 76th Street, 922, (Ward 7) — Old Landmark Christian Ministries, owner — appeal
rescheduled to 9/1/10 on 8/18/10 (Doc. A-120-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 84th Street, 2239, (Ward 6) — Takeeya Fowlkes, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-298-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 1826, (Ward 7) — Nevitt Butler, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-129-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 1846, (Ward 7) — David M. Dotson, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-128-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 1851, (Ward 7) — David M. Dotson, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-80-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 7338, (Ward 7) — Eaton Rugby LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-117-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Road, 3292, (Ward 14) — Pawan K. Mangla, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-229-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Road, 3292, (Ward 6) — Takeeya Fowlkes, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-284-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gorman Avenue, 9407, (Ward 2) — Richard C. Davis, owner — appeal amended on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-59-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeview Road, 1105, (Ward 9) — Terrence Rollins, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-74-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Luke Avenue, 12615, (Ward 4) — Terry Garrett, owner — appeal adopted on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-107-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morrison Avenue, 10802, (Ward 8) — Terrence Rollins, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-75-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Road, 19015, (Ward 11) — David James, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-118-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Avenue, 3500, (Ward 8) — Rose Strauss, owner — appeal resolved on 8/18/10
(Doc. A-119-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Avenue, 9300, (Ward 6) — Cuyahoga County / Department of Central Services, owner —
appeal adopted on 8/18/10 (Doc. A-269-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1409

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355

The City Record

116

August 25, 2010

West 47th Street, 1855-57, (Ward 13) — Marcia Brentson, owner — extension of time granted
on 8/16/10 (Doc. A-91-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1354
West 47th Street, 1867, (Ward 13) — Marcia Brentson, owner — extension of time granted
on 8/18/10 (Doc. A-90-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1354
West 52nd Street, 3459, (Ward 15) — Anthony Drury & Margaret Drury, owner — appeal
adopted on 8/18/10 (Doc. A-114-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355

Board of Control — Baldwin Water Works Plant
Design Engineering Services — approve subcontractor — Contract #67754 per BOC Res. 5-08 —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 350-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Addison Road and Wade Park Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 106-03-009/026/027 — Eliza Bryant
Village per Ord. 411-10 (BOC Res. 359-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th Street (Ward 6) — PPN 129-26-006 — Louis Golphin per Ord. 413-10 (BOC Res. 361-10)
East 45th Street and Payne Avenue (Ward 8) — PPN 104-25-035 — Svet Partners,
LLC (BOC Res. 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 69th Street (Ward 5) — consent to transfer of property to Dunham Square Land, LLC —
BOC Res. 119-09 (BOC Res. 364-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 73rd Street, 2228 (Ward 5) — PPN 118-24-124 — Burten, Bell, Carr Development
Corporation per Ord. 928-10 (BOC Res. 360-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 90th Street (Ward 6) — PPN 119-34-057 — Kelvin Taylor (BOC Res. 362-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346

Board of Control — Correction Division
IMACS Jail Management System software, service, maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to
Intellitech Corporation — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 355-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345

Board of Control — Finance Department
Fee Study, cost recovery and cost of service policies review — per Ord. 1658-09 to Public
Financial Management, Inc. (BOC Res. 344-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343

Board of Control — Fire Division
Sonar equipment — rescind BOC Res. 259-10 — reject all bids — Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 354-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345

Board of Control — Garrett A. Morgan Water Works Plant
Chemical Facility Project No. 119 — approve subcontractors — Contract CT-2002- PI2010*
8 per BOC Res. 581-09, 42-10, 218-10 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 347-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Addison Road and Wade Park Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 106-03-009/026/027 — Eliza Bryant
Village per Ord. 411-10 (BOC Res. 359-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th Street (Ward 6) — PPN 129-26-006 — Louis Golphin per Ord. 413-10 (BOC Res. 361-10)
East 45th Street and Payne Avenue (Ward 8) — PPN 104-25-035 — Svet Partners,
LLC (BOC Res. 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 69th Street (Ward 5) — consent to transfer of property to Dunham Square Land, LLC —
BOC Res. 119-09 (BOC Res. 364-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 73rd Street, 2228 (Ward 5) — PPN 118-24-124 — Burten, Bell, Carr Development
Corporation per Ord. 928-10 (BOC Res. 360-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 90th Street (Ward 6) — PPN 119-34-057 — Kelvin Taylor (BOC Res. 362-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Cudell Recreation Center Master Plan, Phase I — per Ord. 451-08 to Precision Engineering
& Contracting, Inc. — Division of Research, Planning and Development (BOC Res. 358-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345

Board of Control — Police Division
MSA Self-Contained breathing apparatus — per Ord. 639-08 to Fire Force, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Safety (BOC Res. 356-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345
Personal Protective Equipment — per Ord. 639-08 to Dicar Corporation — Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 357-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Construction management and administration services — approve subcontractor — contract
per BOC Res. 99-10 (BOC Res. 353-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345

1410

August 25, 2010

The City Record

117

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
BancTec IntelliScan XDS payment processing hardware, software — per Ord. 1036-07 to
BancTEc, Inc. — Division of Utilities Fiscal Control, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 346-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Construction management and administration services — approve subcontractor — contract
per BOC Res. 99-10 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 353-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Design Engineering Services for Baldwin Residuals and Fairmount Reservoir Project —
approve subcontractor — Contract #67754 per BOC Res. 5-08 — Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 350-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fee Study, cost recovery and cost of service policies review — per Ord. 1658-09 to Public
Financial Management, Inc. — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 344-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
IMACS Jail Management System software, service, maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to
Intellitech Corporation — Division of Corrections, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 355-10).

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Cudell Recreation Center Master Plan, Phase I — per Ord. 451-08 to Precision Engineering
& Contracting, Inc. — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 358-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345
Morgan Water Works Chemical Facility Project No. 119 — approve subcontractors —
Contract CT-2002- PI2010* 8 per BOC Res. 581-09, 42-10, 218-10 — Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 347-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
Water main replacement (East 22nd St., East 113th St., Everett Ct., Phase 2) — per Ord.
1541-09 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 352-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
IMACS Jail Management System software, service, maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to
Intellitech Corporation — Division of Corrections (BOC Res. 355-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MSA Self-Contained breathing apparatus — per Ord. 639-08 to Fire Force, Inc. — Division
of Police (BOC Res. 356-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Personal Protective Equipment — per Ord. 639-08 to Dicar Corporation — Division of Police
(BOC Res. 357-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sonar equipment — rescind BOC Res. 259-10 — reject all bids — Division of Fire (BOC Res. 354-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . 1345
. . . . . . . . . . . 1345
. . . . . . . . . . . 1345
. . . . . . . . . . . 1345

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
BancTec IntelliScan XDS payment processing hardware, software — per Ord. 1036-07 to
BancTEc, Inc. — Division of Utilities Fiscal Control (BOC Res. 346-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Design Engineering Services for Baldwin Residuals and Fairmount Reservoir Project —
approve subcontractor — Contract #67754 per BOC Res. 5-08 — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 350-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equipment, laboratory, testing and analytical services: gas chromatograph and accessories —
consent to assignment — Contrct #68276 per BOC Res. 359-08 — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 345-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Water Works Chemical Facility Project No. 119 — approve subcontractors — Contract
CT-2002- PI2010*8 per BOC Res. 581-09, 42-10, 218-10 — Division of Water (BOC Res. 347-10) . . .
Trucks, catch basin cleaning (Scavenger Vac), repair and maintain — amend BOC Res. 297-10 —
Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 348-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, catch basin cleaning (Vac-All), repair and maintain — amend BOC Res. 299-10 —
Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 349-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valves, actuators and appurtenances — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Industrial Valves and
Universal Machine and Valve Company, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 351-10) . . . . . . . .
Water main replacement (East 22nd St., East 113th St., Everett Ct., Phase 2) — per Ord.
1541-09 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 352-10) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1343

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1344

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1344

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
MSA Self-Contained breathing apparatus — per Ord. 639-08 to Fire Force, Inc. — Division
of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 356-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Personal Protective Equipment — per Ord. 639-08 to Dicar Corporation — Division of
Police, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 357-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sonar equipment — rescind BOC Res. 259-10 — reject all bids — Division of Fire, Dept. of
Public Safety (BOC Res. 354-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, catch basin cleaning (Scavenger Vac), repair and maintain — amend BOC Res. 297-10
Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 348-10) . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, catch basin cleaning (Vac-All), repair and maintain — amend BOC Res. 299-10 —
Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 349-10) . . . . . . . . .
Valves, actuators and appurtenances — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Industrial Valves and
Universal Machine and Valve Company, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 351-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344

Board of Control — Research, Planning and Development Division
Cudell Recreation Center Master Plan, Phase I — per Ord. 451-08 to Precision Engineering
& Contracting, Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 358-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345

1411

The City Record

118

August 25, 2010

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Equipment, laboratory, testing and analytical services: gas chromatograph and accessories —
consent to assignment — Contrct #68276 per BOC Res. 359-08 — Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 345-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
Board of Control — Utilities Fiscal Control Division
BancTec IntelliScan XDS payment processing hardware, software — per Ord. 1036-07 to
BancTEc, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 346-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
Board of Control — Water Division
Design Engineering Services for Baldwin Residuals and Fairmount Reservoir Project —
approve subcontractor — Contract #67754 per BOC Res. 5-08 — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 350-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equipment, laboratory, testing and analytical services: gas chromatograph and accessories —
consent to assignment — Contrct #68276 per BOC Res. 359-08 — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 345-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Water Works Chemical Facility Project No. 119 — approve subcontractors — Contract
CT -2002- PI2010*8 per BOC Res. 581-09, 42-10, 218-10 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 347-10)
Valves, actuators and appurtenances — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Industrial Valves and
Universal Machine and Valve Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 351-10) . . .
Water main replacement (East 22nd St., East 113th St., Everett Ct., Phase 2) — per Ord.
1541-09 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 352-10) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1344

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1344

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Trucks, catch basin cleaning (Scavenger Vac), repair and maintain — amend BOC Res. 297-10 —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 348-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
Trucks, catch basin cleaning (Vac-All), repair and maintain — amend BOC Res. 299-10 —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 349-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Dale Avenue, 10917, (Ward 17) — Roland Sarai, owner — appeal heard on 8/23/10 (Cal. 10-127) .
East 119th Street, 3321, (Ward 4) — Debra Martin, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
8/23/10 (Cal. 10-102) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 13351, (Ward 18) — Jefferson Park Group LLC, owner and Sal Awadallah and
Mike Kamel, tenant — appeal postponed to 9/7/10 on 8/23/10 (Cal. 10-132) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 18200, (Ward 19) — Fairview General Hospital, owner — appeal postponed to
9/20/10 on 8/23/10 (Cal. 10-130) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Orchard Avenue, 4219, (Ward 15) — Michael Rastatter, owner — appeal postponed to 9/13/10
on 8/23/10 (Cal. 10-129) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Road, 4806, (Ward 13) — Rai Gurdev and K. Harpaul, owners and Ray Elder, tenant appeal denied and adopted on 8/23/10 (Cal. 10-123). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vega Avenue, 3036, (Ward 14) — Jannette Gomez, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
8/23/10 (Cal. 10-126) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 33rd Street, 3121, (Ward 14) — The San Lorenzo Club and Jose Acevedo, owner — appeal
postponed to 10/18/10 on 8/23/10 (Cal. 10-107) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Detroit Avenue, 2814, (Ward 3) — Bounce Properties, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on
9/7/2010 (Cal. 10-133) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pulaski Avenue, 8101, (Ward 7) — Lorenzo Willis III, owner, Nellie Williams and Tyrone
Glass, tenants — appeal to be heard on 9/7/2010 (Cal. 10-138). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 126th Street, 3298, (Ward 17) — Daniel Wigfall, owner, and Tracy Paxton, tenant appeal to be heard on 9/7/2010 (Cal. 10-140) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4780, (Ward 18) — Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation, owner appeal to be heard on 9/7/2010 (Cal. 10-142) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4790, (Ward 18) — City of Cleveland, owner, and the Department
of Community Development — appeal to be heard on 9/7/2010 (Cal. 10-143) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1351
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352

Bridges
Consent agreement Cedar Road Bridge (O 652-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1376
Building and Housing Department
Amend Sect(s) 3105.25, 3105.26 & 3105.28 — carnival and festival fee schedules (O 708-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1380
Amend Sect. 3103.091 — Utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe structures (O 835-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1385
Building and Housing — professional service — deconstruction services (O 1055-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1302
City of Cleveland Bids
Computers, pen-base, I-Mobile and equipment and accessories — Department of Public Safety —
Division of Emergency Medical Service — per Ord. 599-10 — bid due September
9, 2010 (advertised 8/18/2010 and 8/25/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
Fence, installation, maintenance and repair (Re-Bid) — Department of Public Utilities Division of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 395-09 — bid due September 15, 2010
(advertised 8/18/2010 and 8/25/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355

1412

August 25, 2010

The City Record

Keys, locks and hardware — Department of Public Utilities — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid
due September 8, 2010 (advertised 8/18/2010 and 8/25/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Standalone crash phone system — Department of Port Control — Division of Burke Lakefront
Airport — per Ord. 814-08 — bid due September 23, 2010 (advertised 8/25/2010 and 9/1/2010)
Transmissions, remanufactured — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per Ord. 686-07 — bid due September 9, 2010
(advertised 8/18/2010 and 8/25/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, combination sewer and catch basin cleaning, repair and maintain — Department of
Public Utilities — Division of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid
due September 8, 2010 (advertised 8/18/2010 and 8/25/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, t.v. inspection, repair and maintain — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due September 8, 2010
(advertised 8/18/2010 and 8/25/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Forestry property maintenance service — Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 bid due September 29, 2010 (advertised 8/25/2010 and 9/1/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water pumps, including electric motors, controls and appurtenances, maintenance and
repair (Re-Bid) — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord.
587-09 — bid due September 10, 2010 (advertised 8/18/2010 and 8/25/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Welding equipment, supplies and materials — Department of Public Utilities per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due September 8, 2010 (advertised 8/18/2010 and 8/25/2010) . . . . .

119
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1356

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355

City Planning Commission
East 104th St. — intention to vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 02) (O 1024-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
East 51st St., 1374 — encroach into right-of-way — entrance canopy and two support posts —
Ohio Technical College — Service Department (Ward 08) (O 1030-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1299
Establish Superior Avenue Design Review District (O 1077-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
Perry Court N.E., East 25th St., East 26th St — intention to vacate a portion — Service
Department (Ward 03) (R 610-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343-1356
Rowley Ave. & West 11th St. — Change Use District — Two Family Residential to Local Retail
Business (Ward 03) (O 1076-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1305
Stanhope Ct. N. W., — intention to vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 16)
(R 1032-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1307

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Lease agreement with Servisar USA (O 1034-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1300

Cleveland Housing Network
Contracts — Water Division — affordability program (O 1025-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
East 117th St., 2913 — PPN 129-18-104 — Land Reutilization Program — (Ward 04) (O 1075-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1304

Cleveland Public Power
Material handling, cranes, rigging, heavy equipment — contracts (O 869-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386
Safety Equipment — contracts — Utilities Department (O 870-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sect(s) 188.01, 188.02 & 188.05 — Fannie M. Lewis Cleveland Resident Employment Law
(O 1056-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1302
Amend Sect(s) 3105.25, 3105.26 & 3105.28 — carnival and festival fee schedules (O 708-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1380
Amend Sect(s) 551.111 & 551.99 — Enact new sect(s) 551.991 & 551.041 — Waste collection
& recycling (O 697-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1377
Amend Sect. 3103.091 — Utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe structures (O 835-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1385
Enact new Sect(s) 514.01 to 514.11 & 514.99 — ISSUANCE OF TEMPORARY PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
OCCUPANCY PERMITS FOR STREETSCAPE AMENITIES (O 884-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1394
Enacting new Section 571.90 — Banner Towing Operations; Fee (O 806-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1384

Community Development Department
Cap Corps Internship Program — agreement — Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps (Ward 1
NCF) (O 1051-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407
Com. Dev. & Econ. Dev. — amend Contract No. 53646 — Otis Associates — Bridgeview Apartments
(O 1105-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407
Contracts — Burten, Bell, Carr Development — Hill Place Townhome project (Ward 05)(O 1045-10) . . . . . . 1318-1406
Contracts to manage and maintain Community Development Buildings (O 873-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1387
East 117th St., 2913 — PPN 129-18-104 — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing
Network (Ward 04) (O 1075-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1304
East 178th St., 4798 — PPN 143-20-034 — Land Reutilization Program — Theoderus Bennett
(Ward 01) (O 1046-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1301
Economic Development — Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 797-10 — Pyrrhus, Inc. & Borchert Fence
Co. — property swap — Greenhouse (O 1044-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318-1405
Nelson Ave., 10805 — PPN 136-04-021 — Land Reutilization Program — Ella M. Settles (Ward
02)(O 1073-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1303
Telfair Ave., 16320-22 — PPN 143-02-055 — Land Reutilization Program — Barry K. Dowdell
(Ward 01) (O 1074-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1304
Utilities Dept. — transfer PPN 129-05-048 — Mt. Overlook Ave. (O 1027-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1299

1413

The City Record

120

August 25, 2010

Condolences Resolutions
Beasley, Clifton Wesley (R 1145-10) . . . . . . . . . .
Bostic, M.C. (R 1139-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Butler, Katherine Marie (R 1143-10) . . . . . . . . . .
Catavolos, Pete (R 1141-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cielec, Emil (R 1140-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dicks (Thompson) , Helen Barbara (R 1138-10)
Gardner, Shana Denise (R 1147-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gonsalves, Addie E (R 1144-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Graves, Clarence D. (R 1137-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Herod, Jonathon “Jesse” Lee (R 1136-10) . . . . . .
Marshall Mosley, Patricia Rae (R 1146-10) . . . .
Roberts, Annette (nee Cobbs) (R 1142-10) . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298

Anchor Manufacturing Group, Inc. (R 1156-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brown, Tyreese (R 1159-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bush-Rauh, Portia Victoria (R 1148-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contardi, O. de M, Micheal G. (R 1152-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cregan, Father John J (R 1155-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hispanic Heritage Month, 2010 (R.1048-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jones, Sybil Monica (R 1157-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martinez, Luis (R 1153-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moore, Pastors Edwin T. & Renae A. (R 1151-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pednekar, Father Joesph C. (R 1154-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sadie, Joseph T. (R 1149-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Simpson Chae (R 1158-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Peter and Paul Ukrainian Catholic Church — 100th Anniversary (R 1150-10)

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Congratulations Resolutions

Contracts
Automated Waste Collection and Curbside Recycling Program — recycling carts (O 891-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1395
Cleveland Brown’s Stadium — public improvement — replacing an expansion joint & making
various concrete and steel repairs (O 550-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340-1376
Cleveland Housing Network — Water Division — affordability program (O 1025-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Com. Dev. & Econ. Dev. — amend Contract No. 53646 — Otis Associates — Bridgeview Apartments
(O 1105-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407
Community Development — Burten, Bell, Carr Development — Hill Place Townhome project (Ward
05)(O 1045-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318-1406
Exercise option — Contract No. 68519 — Tyco Simplex-Grinnell — safety systems (O 872-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1387
Hand tools & hand-held power tools — various divisions (O 868-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386
Manage and maintain Community Development Buildings (O 873-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1387
Material handling, cranes, rigging, heavy equipment (O 869-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386
Office supplies — various divisions (O 867-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1385
Public improvement — professional services — Public Auditorium (O 1035-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1301
Safety Equipment — Utilities Department (O 870-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386
Sub Agreement with Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co. — West 121st Street Extension
& Reconstruction Project (O 1037-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1309-1396
Cuyahoga Community College
Utilities Department — agreements — TRI-C’s Smart Grid Technology training program
(O 1028-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1299
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority

Sell City-owned property at E. 73rd St. & Carson Ave. to CMHA (O 1047-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1319-1406

Easements
To appropriate overhead permanent utility easement at 6938 Kinsman Rd. — relocating power
poles and lines to rehabilitate portions of Woodland Ave. & Kinsman Rd. (Ward 05)
(O 881-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To appropriate southwest corner of E. 88th St. & Union Ave for Bessemer Avenue extension —
Service Dept. (Ward 05) (O 882-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To appropriate southwest corner of East 88th Street & Bessemer Avenue for extension —
Service Department (Ward 05) (O 883-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To appropriate west side of E. 93rd St. (between Heath & St. Catherine Ave.) — Bessemer
Road extension (Ward 10) (O 878-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1342-1391
. . . . . . . . . . 1342-1391
. . . . . . . . . . 1342-1392
. . . . . . . . . . 1342-1388

Economic Development Department
Agreement — Reflections Beauty Salon — building renovation (Ward 09 NCF) (O 1049-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1319-1407
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 797-10 — Pyrrhus, Inc. & Borchert Fence Co. — property swap Greenhouse (O 1044-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318-1405
Amend title & Sect(s) 1& 5 of Ord. No. 795-10 — acquire & reconvey properties for chain
-of-title — 6700 Euclid, LLC to Dunham Square Land, LLC (O 1039-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1311-1398

1414

August 25, 2010

The City Record

121

Com. Dev. & Econ. Dev. — amend Contract No. 53646 — Otis Associates — Bridgeview Apartments
(O 1105-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407
Create Special Energy Improvement District — Humphrey Park (R 1078-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1307
TIF Agreement — 6200 Euclid Ave. (Pierre’s Ice Cream) (O 1038-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1310-1398

Encroachments
East 105th St., — Veterans Development — public right-of-way — maintaining
federally-required security bollards and a pedestrian bridge (O 547-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340-1375
East 51st St., 1374 — public right-of-way — entrance canopy and two support posts — Ohio
Technical College — Service Department (Ward 08) (O 1030-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1299
East 55th St. — Rainey Institute — public right-of-way — installing, using, and maintaining
an entry marquee with masonry piers — Service Department (Ward 07) (O 875-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1387
Shaker Square Area Development Corp. — Shaker Square on Larchmere & E. 121 St. —
neighborhood entry sign, a planter, and an underground power conduit (Ward
06) (O 890-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1395
University Circle area — various streets — public rights-of- way — University Circle Inc —
25 wayfinding signs — Service Department (Ward 08) (O 1029-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1308-1396
West 179th St. & Lorain Ave. — Fairview Hospital — public right-of-way — installing, using,
and maintaining 2 communication duct banks (O 698-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1379
West 6th St. (between Frankfort Ave. & St. Clair Ave.) — right-of-way — maintaining steel
railings around 7 existing planting beds — Historic Warehouse District Development
Corp. — Service Department (Ward 03)(O 1031-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1300

Fair Housing Review Board
Downtown Cleveland Race Relations (R 1118-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1372

Finance Department
Hand tools & hand-held power tools — contracts — various divisions (O 868-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386
LED streetlights, bulbs, traffic lights — contract (O 829-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343-1384
Office supplies — contracts — various divisions (O 867-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1385
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications — amend Sect. 45 of Ord. 947-08 —
Personnel Department (O 1042-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1317-1404
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications- amend Sect(s) 8 & 24 of Ord.
No. 947-08 — Personnel Department (O 1041-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399

Grants
Amend title of Ord. No. 10-10 — 2009 Buffer Zone Protection Program (O 1043-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318-1405
Minority Health Program, 2011 — Ohio Commission on Minority Health (O 1033-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1300

Health Department
Minority Health Program, 2011 — Grant — Ohio Commission on Minority Health (O 1033-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1300

Housing Court
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356

Land Reutilization Program
East 117th St., 2913 — PPN 129-18-104 — Cleveland Housing Network (Ward 04) (O 1075-10)
East 178th St., 4798 — PPN 143-20-034 — Theoderus Bennett (Ward 01) (O 1046-10) . . . . . . . .
Nelson Ave., 10805 — PPN 136-04-021 — Ella M. Settles (Ward 02) (O 1073-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Telfair Ave., 16320-22 — PPN 143-02-055 — Barry K. Dowdell (Ward 01) (O 1074-10). . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1304
1301
1303
1304

Leases Agreement
Servisar USA — CHIA (O 1034-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1300

Leases
Property on Otter Avenue — Rid-all Exterminating & General Contracting Corp. — urban
agriculture training center (O 1036-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1301

Liquor Permits
Aetna Rd., 9102 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1090-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1330-1365
Arcade Ave., 16101 — objection to renewal (Ward 11) (R 1067-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1325-1360
Broadview Rd., 3314 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1107-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1335-1369
Cedar Ave., 7002 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 05) (R 1063-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1324-1358
Cedar Ave., 7819 — 21 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 06) (F 1131-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Central Ave., 7401- 05 (bsmt.) — objection to transfer of ownership and Liquor
Agency Contract (Ward 05) (R 1088-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1329-1364
Central Ave., 7401-05 (bsmt.) — liquor Agency Contract (Ward 05) (F 1129-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Central Ave., 7401-05 (bsmt.) — transfer of ownership application (Ward 05) (F 1130-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Clark Ave., 5110 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 15) (F 1134-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297

1415

The City Record

122

August 25, 2010

Columbus Rd., 1852 — stock transfer application (Ward 03) (F 1127-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Corlett Ave., 12401 (1st. fl.) — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1091-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1330-1365
Denison Ave., 2101 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1108-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1335-1369
Denison Ave., 3801-03 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — objection to renewal (Ward 14)(R 1119-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338-1373
Detroit Ave., 5910 — objection to renewal (Ward 15) (R 1117-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338-1372
Detroit Ave., 6403 — 6415 — new application (Ward 15) (F 1135-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Dolloff Rd., 5351-53 — objection to renewal (Ward 05) (R 1124-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339-1374
Dove Ave., 10818 (1st fl.) — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1092-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1331-1365
East 116th St., 3643 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1095-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1331-1366
East 116th St., 3705 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1096-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1332-1366
East 12th St., 1701 (Suite, R135 1st fl.) — stock transfer application (Ward 03) (F 1126-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
East 12th St., 1701 (Suite R135 & 1st fl.) — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1109-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1335-1370
East 131st St., 4096-98 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1097-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1332-1367
East 143rd St., 3249 — objection to renewal (Ward 01) (R 1070-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326-1360
East 144th St., 3744 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1098-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1332-1367
East 17th St., 1740 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1110-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336-1370
East 21st St., 1417-1423 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 1128-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
East 21st St., 2045 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1079-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327-1361
East 65th St., 3850 (1st fl.) — objection to renewal (Ward 12) (R 1106-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334-1369
East 93rd St., 3661 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1093-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1331-1365
East 93rd St., 3831 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1094-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1331-1366
East 9th St., & Mezzanine 1375- transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 1125-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
East Blvd., 10825 — new application (Ward 08) (F 1132-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Elm St., 2325 (Bar 3 & Bar 4) — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1111-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336-1370
Fall St., 1628-38 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1080-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327-1362
Fleet Ave., 7025 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 525-10
(Ward 12) (R 1057-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1322-1357
Huron Rd., E., 812 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1081-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327-1362
Imperial Ave., 12301-03 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 04) (R 1066-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1325-1359
Jennings Rd., 4002 (1st. fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
848-10 (Ward 03)(R 1058-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1322-1357
Lake Shore Blvd., 16826 — stock transfer application (Ward 11) (F 1133-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Lakeshore Blvd., 16826 — objection to renewal (Ward 11) (R 1178-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340-1374
Lakeside Ave., 3232 (bsmt.) — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1115-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337-1371
Lee Rd., 4360 — objection to renewal (Ward 01) (R 1179-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340-1375
Lorain Ave., 2710 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1084-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328-1363
Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd., 3904 (1st fl.) — objection to renewal — (Ward 02) (R 1099-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1333-1367
Miles Ave., 11334 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1102-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334-1368
Miles Ave., 14731 — objection to renewal (Ward 01) (R 1071-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326-1361
Miles Ave., 9305 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1100-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1333-1367
Miles Ave., 9911 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1101-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1333-1368
Old River Rd., 1204 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1112-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336-1371
Pearl Rd., 5100 — objection to renewal (Ward 13) (R 1089-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1330-1364
Prospect Ave., 21 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1082-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327-1362
Prospect Ave., 618 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1083-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328-1362
Public Sq., 75 (Suite B-100) — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1061-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1323-1358
Rowley Ave., 1104 (1st fl.& bsmt.) — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1059-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1322-1357
St. Clair Ave., 15637 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 950-10
(Ward 11) (R 1069-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326-1360
St. Clair Ave., 18414-16 — objection to renewal (Ward 11) (R 1068-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1325-1360
St. Clair Ave., 18414-16 — objection to renewal (Ward 11) (R 1116-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337-1372
Superior Ave., 526 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1060-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1323-1357
Turney Rd., 4595 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1103-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334-1368
Warner Rd., 4563 — objection to renewal (Ward 02) (R 1104-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334-1369
Warner Rd., 4563 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 570-10 (Ward
02) (R 1072-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326-1361
Waterloo Rd., 15617 (1st. fl. & bsmt.) — objection to renewal (Ward 11) (R 1120-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338-1373
West 25th St., 1616 — objection to renewal (Ward 03)(R 1087-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1329-1364
West 25th St., 1917 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 03) (R 1062-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1323-1358
West 25th St., 2030-32 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1113-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336-1371
West 25th St., 2132 (1st fl.) — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1114-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337-1371
West 25th St., 2850 — objection to renewal (Ward 14) (R 1123-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339-1374
West 25th St., 3129 (1st. fl. & bsmt.) — objection to renewal (Ward 14) (R 1121-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339-1373
West 25th St., 3180-84 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — objection to renewal (Ward 14) (R 1122-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339-1374
West 25th St., 3194 — objection to renewal (Ward 14) (R 1064-10)*****1324 1359F
West 25th St., 3194 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 14) (R 1065-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1359
West 3rd St., 2233 (1st fl. & patio) — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1085-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328-1363
West 6th St., 1392 — objection to renewal (Ward 03) (R 1086-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1329-1363

Mayor’s Office

American Families Act — same-gender partners (R 1053-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
LED streetlights, bulbs, traffic lights — contract (O 829-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343-1384

Office of Equal Opportunity
Amend Sect(s) 188.01, 188.02 & 188.05 — Fannie M. Lewis Cleveland Resident Employment Law
(O 1056-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1302

1416

August 25, 2010

The City Record

123

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Lease property on Otter Avenue — Rid-all Exterminating & General Contracting Corp. — urban
agriculture training center (O 1036-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1301
Public improvement contract — professional services — Public Auditorium (O 1035-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1301
Sell City-owned property at E. 73rd St. & Carson Ave. to CMHA (O 1047-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1319-1406

Personnel Department
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, Local 439 — approve
collective bargaining agreement — Finance Department (O 1040-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1312-1399
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications- amend Sect(s) 8 & 24 of Ord.
No. 947-08 — Finance Department (O 1041-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications — amend Sect. 45 of Ord. 947-08 —
Finance Department (O 1042-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1317-1404

Port Control Department
Enacting new Section 571.90 — Banner Towing Operations; Fee (O 806-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1384
Exercise option — Contract No. 68519 — Tyco Simplex-Grinnell — safety systems (O 872-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1387
Lease agreement with Servisar USA — CHIA (O 1034-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1300

Professional Services
2010 & 2011 Annual Reports — Utilities Department (O 1026-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Building and Housing — deconstruction services (O 1055-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
High Line Corporation (Casnet) — contract — Onbase hardware maintenance (O 871-10)
Public improvement contract — Public Auditorium (O 1035-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1387
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1301

Public Improvements
Cleveland Brown’s Stadium — contract — replacing an expansion joint & making various
concrete and steel repairs (O 550-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340-1376
Contract — professional services — Public Auditorium (O 1035-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1301

Purchases and Supplies Division
Amend title & Sect(s) 1& 5 of Ord. No. 795-10 — acquire & reconvey properties for chain
-of-title — 6700 Euclid, LLC to Dunham Square Land, LLC (O 1039-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1311-1398
Sell City-owned property at E. 73rd St. & Carson Ave. to CMHA (O 1047-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1319-1406

Recognition Resolutions
Americans with Disabilities (20th Anniversary) (R 1168-10)
Asaad’s Bakery (R 1164-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Beebe, Helen Masson (R 1162-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Behringer, Father William (R 1173-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Blige, Mary J. (R 1171-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ganim, Richard A. (R 1165-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kaunda, Dr. Kenneth David (R 1170-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Khoury, Dr. Wael (R 1167-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kittredge, Marie (R 1174-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Klein, Robert (R. 1161-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nehemiah Mission of Cleveland (R 1160-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oakar, Mary Rose (R 1166-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thandiwe Banda (R 1169-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Cleveland Congress of Bridge Clubs (R 1172-10) . . . . . . .
Voinovich, Senator George V. (R 1163-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298
1298

Resolution of Support
American Families Act — same-gender partners (R 1053-10) . .
Downtown Cleveland Race Relations (R 1118-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Create Special Energy Improvement
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . .

....................................
....................................
District — Humphrey Park (R 1078-10)
....................................

. . 1321-1356
. . 1321-1372
. . . . . . 1307
. . 1321-1356

Resolution — Miscellaneous

American Families Act — same-gender partners (R 1053-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
Downtown Cleveland Race Relations (R 1118-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1372
Economic Development — Create Special Energy Improvement District — Humphrey Park (R 1078-10) . . . . . . 1307

Safety Department
Amend title of Ord. No. 10-10 — 2009 Buffer Zone Protection Program (O 1043-10)

1417

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318-1405

The City Record

124

August 25, 2010

Salaries
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, Local 439 — approve
collective bargaining agreement — Finance Department — Personnel and Human Resource
Dept. (O 1040-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1312-1399
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications — amend Sect. 45 of Ord. 947-08 —
Finance Department — Personnel Department (O 1042-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1317-1404
Salary and wage schedules — various classifications- amend Sect(s) 8 & 24 of Ord.
No. 947-08 — Finance Department — Personnel Department (O 1041-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399

Service Department
Amend Sect(s) 551.111 & 551.99 — Enact new sect(s) 551.991 & 551.041 — Waste collection
& recycling (O 697-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1377
Automated Waste Collection and Curbside Recycling Program — contracts — recycling carts
(O 891-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1395
Consent agreement Cedar Road Bridge (O 652-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1376
East 104th St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — (Ward
02) (O 1024-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
East 105th St., — Veterans Development — encroachment into public right-of-way —
maintaining federally-required security bollards and a pedestrian bridge
(O 547-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340-1375
East 51st St., 1374 — encroach into right-of-way — entrance canopy and two support posts —
Ohio Technical College (Ward 08) (O 1030-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1299
East 55th St. — Rainey Institute — encroachment public right-of-way — installing, using,
and maintaining an entry marquee with masonry piers (Ward 07) (O 875-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1387
Enact new Sect(s) 514.01 to 514.11 & 514.99 — ISSUANCE OF TEMPORARY PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
OCCUPANCY PERMITS FOR STREETSCAPE AMENITIES (O 884-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1394
Fairview Court — change the name — Farinacci Court (O 1050-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407
Perry Court N.E., East 25th St., East 26th St — intention to vacate a portion — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (R 610-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343-1356
Shaker Square Area Development Corp. — encroach — Shaker Square on Larchmere & E. 121 St. —
neighborhood entry sign, a planter, and an underground power conduit (Ward
06) (O 890-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1395
Stanhope Ct. N. W., — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 16)
(R 1032-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1307
Sub Agreement with Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co — West 121st Street Extension
& Reconstruction Project (O 1037-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1309-1396
The City Mission — banners — Puritas Ave. — utility poles (Ward 19) (O 877-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1388
To appropriate overhead permanent utility easement at 6938 Kinsman Rd. — relocating power
poles and lines to rehabilitate portions of Woodland Ave. & Kinsman Rd. (Ward 05)
(O 881-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1391
To appropriate southwest corner of E. 88th St. & Union Ave for Bessemer Avenue extension
(Ward 05) (O 882-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1391
To appropriate southwest corner of East 88th Street & Bessemer Avenue for extension (Ward
05) (O 883-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1392
To appropriate west side of E. 93rd St. (between Heath & St. Catherine Ave.) — Bessemer
Road extension (Ward 10) (O 878-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1388
Union Miles Development Corporation — banners — various location — Aug. 1 to Aug. 16th —
Community Expo (Ward 02) (O 1052-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407
University Circle area — various streets — encroach — public rights-of- way — University
Circle Inc — 25 wayfinding signs (Ward 08) (O 1029-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1308-1396
West 179th St. & Lorain Ave. — Fairview Hospital — encroach public right-of-way installing, using, and maintaining 2 communication duct banks (O 698-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1379
West 6th St. (between Frankfort Ave. & St. Clair Ave.) — encroach into right-of-way —
maintaining steel railings around 7 existing planting beds — Historic Warehouse
District Development Corp. (Ward 03)(O 1031-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1300

Stadium
Cleveland Brown’s Stadium — public improvement contract — replacing an expansion joint
& making various concrete and steel repairs (O 550-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340-1376

Streets- Name
Fairview Court — change the name — Farinacci Court (O 1050-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407

Street Vacation
East 104th St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (Ward 02) (O 1024-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Perry Court N.E., East 25th St., East 26th St — intention to vacate a portion — City
Planning Commission — Service Department (Ward 03)(R 610-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343-1356
Stanhope Ct. N. W., — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (Ward 16) (R 1032-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1307

Union-Miles Development Corporation
Union Miles Development Corporation — banners — various location — Aug. 1 to Aug. 16th —
Community Expo — Service Department (Ward 02) (O 1052-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407

1418

August 25, 2010

The City Record

125

University Circle
University Circle area — various streets — encroach — public rights-of- way — University
Circle Inc — 25 wayfinding signs — Service Department (Ward 08) (O 1029-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1308-1396

Unions
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, Local 439 — approve
collective bargaining agreement — Finance Department — Personnel and Human Resource
Dept. (O 1040-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1312-1399

Utilities Department
2010 & 2011 Annual Reports — professional services (O 1026-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Agreements — TRI-C’s Smart Grid Technology training program (O 1028-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1299
Cleveland Housing Network — contracts — Water Division — affordability program (O 1025-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
High Line Corporation (Casnet) — contract — Onbase hardware maintenance (O 871-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1387
Material handling, cranes, rigging, heavy equipment — contracts (O 869-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386
Safety Equipment — contracts (O 870-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386
Transfer PPN 129-05-048 — Mt. Overlook Ave. — Comm. Dev. (O 1027-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1299

Vacant Structures
Amend Sect. 3103.091 — Utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe structures (O 835-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1385

Ward 01
Cap Corps Internship Program — agreement — Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps (Ward 1
NCF) (O 1051-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407
Dicks (Thompson) , Helen Barbara — condolence (R 1138-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
East 143rd St., 3249 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1070-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326-1360
East 178th St., 4798 — PPN 143-20-034 — Land Reutilization Program — Theoderus Bennett
(O 1046-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1301
Graves, Clarence D. — condolence (R 1137-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Lee Rd., 4360 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1179-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340-1375
Miles Ave., 14731 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1071-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326-1361
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
Simpson Chae — congratulations (R 1158-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Telfair Ave., 16320-22 — PPN 143-02-055 — Land Reutilization Program — Barry K. Dowdell
(O 1074-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1304
The Cleveland Congress of Bridge Clubs — recognition (R 1172-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Williams, Olivia Maxine — appreciation (R 1175-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298

Ward 02
Aetna Rd., 9102 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1090-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1330-1365
Bostic, M.C. — condolence (R 1139-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Corlett Ave., 12401 (1st. fl.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1091-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1330-1365
Dove Ave., 10818 (1st fl.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1092-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1331-1365
East 104th St. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (O 1024-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
East 116th St., 3643 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1095-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1331-1366
East 116th St., 3705 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1096-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1332-1366
East 131st St., 4096-98 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1097-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1332-1367
East 144th St., 3744 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1098-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1332-1367
East 93rd St., 3661 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1093-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1331-1365
East 93rd St., 3831 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1094-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1331-1366
Jones, Sybil Monica — congratulations (R 1157-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd., 3904 (1st fl.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit
(R 1099-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1333-1367
Miles Ave., 11334 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1102-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334-1368
Miles Ave., 9305 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1100-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1333-1367
Miles Ave., 9911 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1101-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1333-1368
Nelson Ave., 10805 — PPN 136-04-021 — Land Reutilization Program — Ella M. Settles
(O 1073-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1303
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
Turney Rd., 4595 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1103-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334-1368
Union Miles Development Corporation — banners — various location — Aug. 1 to Aug. 16th —
Community Expo — Service Department (O 1052-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407
Warner Rd., 4563 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1104-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334-1369
Warner Rd., 4563 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 570-10 —
liquor permit (R 1072-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326-1361

Ward 03
Asaad’s Bakery — recognition (R 1164-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Broadview Rd., 3314 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1107-10)
Columbus Rd., 1852 — stock transfer application — liquor permit (F 1127-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Dempsey, Amanda — appreciation (R 1177-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Denison Ave., 2101 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1108-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1335-1369

1419

The City Record

126

August 25, 2010

East 12th St., 1701 (Suite, R135 1st fl.) — stock transfer application — liquor permit
(F 1126-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
East 12th St., 1701 (Suite R135 & 1st fl.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1109-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1335-1370
East 17th St., 1740 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1110-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336-1370
East 21st St., 1417-1423 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1128-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
East 21st St., 2045 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1079-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327-1361
East 9th St., & Mezzanine 1375- transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1125-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Elm St., 2325 (Bar 3 & Bar 4) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1111-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336-1370
Fall St., 1628-38 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1080-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327-1362
Ganim, Richard A. — recognition (R 1165-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Huron Rd., E., 812 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1081-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327-1362
Jennings Rd., 4002 (1st. fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
848-10 — liquor permit (R 1058-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1322-1357
Khoury, Dr. Wael — recognition (R 1167-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Lakeside Ave., 3232 (bsmt.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1115-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337-1371
Lorain Ave., 2710 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1084-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328-1363
Oakar, Mary Rose — recognition (R 1166-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Old River Rd., 1204 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1112-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336-1371
Perry Court N.E., East 25th St., East 26th St — intention to vacate a portion — City
Planning Commission — Service Department (R 610-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343-1356
Prospect Ave., 21 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1082-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327-1362
Prospect Ave., 618 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1083-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328-1362
Public Sq., 75 (Suite B-100) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1061-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1323-1358
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
Rowley Ave. & West 11th St. — Change Use District — Two Family Residential to Local Retail
Business — City Planning Commission (O 1076-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1305
Rowley Ave., 1104 (1st fl.& bsmt.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1059-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1322-1357
St. Peter and Paul Ukrainian Catholic Church — 100th Anniversary — congratulations
(R 1150-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Superior Ave., 526 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1060-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1323-1357
Voinovich, Senator George V. — recognition (R 1163-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
West 25th St., 1616 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1087-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1329-1364
West 25th St., 1917 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 1062-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1323-1358
West 25th St., 2030-32 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1113-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336-1371
West 25th St., 2132 (1st fl.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1114-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337-1371
West 3rd St., 2233 (1st fl. & patio) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1085-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328-1363
West 6th St. (between Frankfort Ave. & St. Clair Ave.) — encroach into right-of-way —
maintaining steel railings around 7 existing planting beds — Historic Warehouse
District Development Corp. — Service Department (O 1031-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1300
West 6th St., 1392 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1086-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1329-1363

Ward 04
East 117th St., 2913 — PPN 129-18-104 — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing
Network (O 1075-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1304
Herod, Jonathon “Jesse” Lee — condolence (R 1136-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Imperial Ave., 12301-03 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1066-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1325-1359
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356

Ward 05
Amend title & Sect(s) 1& 5 of Ord. No. 795-10 — acquire & reconvey properties for
chain-of-title — 6700 Euclid, LLC to Dunham Square Land, LLC (O 1039-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1311-1398
Cedar Ave., 7002 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 1063-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1324-1358
Central Ave., 7401- 05 (bsmt.) — objection to transfer of ownership and Liquor Agency Contract —
liquor permit (R 1088-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1329-1364
Central Ave., 7401-05 (bsmt.) — liquor Agency Contract — liquor permit (F 1129-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Central Ave., 7401-05 (bsmt.) — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1130-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Community Development — contracts — Burten, Bell, Carr Development — Hill Place Townhome
project (O 1045-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318-1406
Dix, Jr., Pastor Robert M. — appreciation (R 1176-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Dolloff Rd., 5351-53 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1124-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339-1374
Economic Development — TIF Agreement — 6200 Euclid Ave. (Pierre’s Ice Cream) (O 1038-10) . . . . . . . . . . 1310-1398
Lease property on Otter Avenue — Rid-all Exterminating & General Contracting Corp. — urban
agriculture training center (O 1036-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1301
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
Sell City-owned property at E. 73rd St. & Carson Ave. to CMHA (O 1047-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1319-1406
To appropriate overhead permanent utility easement at 6938 Kinsman Rd. — relocating power
poles and lines to rehabilitate portions of Woodland Ave. & Kinsman Rd.
(O 881-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1391
To appropriate southwest corner of E. 88th St. & Union Ave for Bessemer Avenue extension —
Service Dept. (O 882-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1391
To appropriate southwest corner of East 88th Street & Bessemer Avenue for extension —
Service Department (O 883-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1392

Ward 06
Butler, Katherine Marie — condolence (R 1143-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Ave., 7819 — 21 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit
Dix, Jr., Pastor Robert M. — appreciation (R 1176-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kaunda, Dr. Kenneth David — recognition (R 1170-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1420

...........
(F 1131-10) .
...........
...........

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1298
1297
1298
1298

August 25, 2010

The City Record

127

Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
Roberts, Annette (nee Cobbs) — condolence (R 1142-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Shaker Square Area Development Corp. — encroach — Shaker Square on Larchmere & E. 121 St. —
neighborhood entry sign, a planter, and an underground power conduit (O 890-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1395
Thandiwe Banda — recognition (R 1169-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Utilities Dept. — transfer PPN 129-05-048 — Mt. Overlook Ave. — Comm. Dev. (O 1027-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1299

Ward 07
Blige, Mary J. — recognition (R 1171-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Brown, Tyreese — congratulations (R 1159-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
East 55th St. — Rainey Institute — encroachment public right-of-way — installing, using,
and maintaining an entry marquee with masonry piers — Service Department
(O 875-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1387
Establish Superior Avenue Design Review District (O 1077-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
Marshall Mosley, Patricia Rae — condolence (R 1146-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356

Ward 08
Behringer, Father William — recognition (R 1173-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Bush-Rauh, Portia Victoria — congratulations (R 1148-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
East 105th St., — Veterans Development — encroachment into public right-of-way —
maintaining federally-required security bollards and a pedestrian bridge
(O 547-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340-1375
East 51st St., 1374 — encroach into right-of-way — entrance canopy and two support posts —
Ohio Technical College — Service Department (O 1030-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1299
East Blvd., 10825 — new application — liquor permit (F 1132-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Establish Superior Avenue Design Review District (O 1077-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
Gardner, Shana Denise — condolence (R 1147-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Gonsalves, Addie E — condolence (R 1144-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
University Circle area — various streets — encroach — public rights-of- way — University
Circle Inc — 25 wayfinding signs — Service Department (O 1029-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1308-1396

Ward 09
Americans with Disabilities (20th Anniversary) — recognition (R 1168-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Economic Development — agreement — Reflections Beauty Salon — building renovation (Ward
09 NCF) (O 1049-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1319-1407
Fairview Court — change the name — Farinacci Court (O 1050-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320-1407
Gonsalves, Addie E — condolence (R 1144-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298

Ward 10
Consent agreement Cedar Road Bridge (O 652-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1376
To appropriate west side of E. 93rd St. (between Heath & St. Catherine Ave.) — Bessemer
Road extension (O 878-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1388

Ward 11
Arcade Ave., 16101 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1067-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1325-1360
Lake Shore Blvd., 16826 — stock transfer application — liquor permit (F 1133-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Lakeshore Blvd., 16826 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1178-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340-1374
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
St. Clair Ave., 15637 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 950-10 —
liquor permit (R 1069-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326-1360
St. Clair Ave., 18414-16 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1068-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1325-1360
St. Clair Ave., 18414-16 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1116-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337-1372
Waterloo Rd., 15617 (1st. fl. & bsmt.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1120-10)

Ward 12

East 65th St., 3850 (1st fl.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1106-10)
Fleet Ave., 7025 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 525-10 —
liquor permit (R 1057-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1322-1357
Kittredge, Marie — recognition (R 1174-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
Sadie, Joseph T. — congratulations (R 1149-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298

Ward 13
Pearl Rd., 5100 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1089-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1330-1364
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356

1421

The City Record

128

August 25, 2010

Ward 14
Denison Ave., 3801-03 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1119-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338-1373
Hispanic Heritage Month, 2010 — congratulations (R.1048-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
West 25th St., 2850 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1123-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339-1374
West 25th St., 3129 (1st. fl. & bsmt.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1121-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339-1373
West 25th St., 3180-84 (1st fl. & bsmt.) — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1122-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339-1374
West 25th St., 3194 — objection to renewal — liquor (R 1064-10)*****1324 1359F
West 25th St., 3194 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1065-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1359

Ward 15
Beebe, Helen Masson — recognition (R 1162-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Clark Ave., 5110 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1134-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Contardi, O. de M, Micheal G. — congratulations (R 1152-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Detroit Ave., 5910 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1117-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338-1372
Detroit Ave., 6403 — 6415 — new application — liquor permit (F 1135-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Klein, Robert — recognition (R. 1161-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Moore, Pastors Edwin T. & Renae A. — congratulations (R 1151-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Nehemiah Mission of Cleveland — recognition (R 1160-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356

Ward 16
Catavolos, Pete — condolence (R 1141-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Cielec, Emil — condolence (R 1140-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
Stanhope Ct. N. W., — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service
Department (R 1032-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1307

Ward 17
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
Sub Agreement with Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co — West 121st Street Extension
& Reconstruction Project (O 1037-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1309-1396

Ward 18
Anchor Manufacturing Group, Inc. — congratulations (R 1156-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Beasley, Clifton Wesley — condolence (R 1145-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Hispanic Heritage Month, 2010 — congratulations (R.1048-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356

Ward 19
Cregan, Father John J — congratulations (R 1155-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Martinez, Luis — congratulations (R 1153-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
Pednekar, Father Joesph C. — congratulations (R.1154-10)1298
Resolution in support of Judge Raymond Pianka (R 1054-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321-1356
The City Mission — banners — Puritas Ave. — utility poles — Service Department (O 877-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1388
West 179th St. & Lorain Ave. — Fairview Hospital — encroach public right-of-way installing, using, and maintaining 2 communication duct banks (O 698-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1379

Water Division
Cleveland Housing Network — contracts — affordability program (O 1025-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1298
High Line Corporation (Casnet) — contract — Onbase hardware maintenance (O 871-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1387
Material handling, cranes, rigging, heavy equipment — contracts (O 869-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386
Safety Equipment — contracts — Utilities Department (O 870-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386

Water Pollution Control Division
Material handling, cranes, rigging, heavy equipment — contracts (O 869-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386
Safety Equipment — contracts — Utilities Department (O 870-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1386

Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Amend Sect(s) 551.111 & 551.99 — Enact new sect(s) 551.991 & 551.041 — Waste collection
& recycling (O 697-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341-1377
Automated Waste Collection and Curbside Recycling Program — contracts — recycling carts
(O 891-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342-1395

Zoning
Rowley Ave. & West 11th St. — Change Use District — Two Family Residential to
Local Retail Business — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1076-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1305

1422

