The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

March the Tenth, Two Thousand and Ten

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name
Terrell H. Pruitt
Zachary Reed
Joe Cimperman
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Jeffrey D. Johnson
Kevin Conwell
Eugene R. Miller
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Kevin J. Kelley
Brian J. Cummins
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
22
22
25
26
26
29
29
29
30
33
34

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman..............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell .................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow ..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell...................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley ..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone......................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
________________, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – _________, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole D.West, Interim Director, Room
121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – John D. Mahone, Interim Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia
Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F. Denk,
Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P.
O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela Caldwell,
Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council Member
____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia
Nolan, David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair; Laura
M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey, Allan
Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12B
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
12A
Judge Michelle D. Earley
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
12C
Judge Michael John Ryan
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 2010

Vol. 97

No. 5022

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 8, 2010
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Cimperman,
Services
Committee:
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Conwell,
Cummins,
Dow,
Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 8, 2010
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Pruitt,
Reed,
Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank J.
Jackson; Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer; Andrea V. Taylor,
Press Secretary; Andrew Watterson,
Chief of Sustainability; and Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Carroll, Cox, Rush, Rybka, Nichols,
Fumich, Interim Directors Walker
Minor, Mahone, West, Acting Director Munday Workman and Theresa
Stevenson, Legislative Affairs.
Moment of Silence. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Conwell, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Brady.
COMMUNICATION

10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson,
K.
Johnson,
Kelley,
Mitchell.

File No. 315-10.
From New Circle Vistas Maximum
Accessible Housing of Ohio — notification of residential rental devel-

279

opment at 11607 Euclid Avenue
utilizing
Ohio
Housing
Finance
Agency (OHFA) funding. Received.
STATEMENT OF FINAL
ACCEPTANCE
File No. 316-10.
From Director of Public Service —
Contract No. 68718, with Dodson &
Associates, for Cory Recreation Center Flooring & Dewatering Project.
Received.
File No. 317-10.
From Director of Public Service —
Contract No. 69616, with Messina
Floor Covering, LLC, for Fusion
Center Carpeting (Justice Center).
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res.
Jr.
Res.
Res.
Res.
ton.
Res.

No. 318-10—Louis D. Solomon,
No. 319-10—Jimmie Britt.
No. 320-10—Velma R. Farmer.
No. 321-10—Otis Paul DrayNo. 322-10—William O’Leary.

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 323-10—Leah Adams.
Res. No. 324-10—Lovell John Custard.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 302-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise an option to renew Contract
No. 67820 with RW Armstrong, Inc.
to provide general engineering design services, for the Department of
Port Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 186-07, passed March
12, 2007, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. 67820 with
RW Armstrong, Inc. to provide general engineering design services for
the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 186-07 requires further legislation before exercising the option to renew on this
contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

4
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the option to renew Contract
No. 67820 for an additional year at
a cost not to exceed $94,019.55, with
RW Armstrong, Inc. for general
engineering design services for the
Department of Port Control. This
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 186-07 to exercise this
option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 303-10.
By Council Members Zone, Miller,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the State of Ohio for the removal
and replacement of the Madison
Avenue Bridge and the rehabilitation of the West 61st Street Bridge;
authorizing the Director of Public
Service to enter into any relative
agreements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is
given to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio (“the
State”) to construct the following
improvement under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the
State: remove and replace the Madison Avenue Bridge over the Norfolk
Southern Railroad Company and the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority (“GCRTA”) railroads with
a pedestrian bridge and rehabilitate
the West 61st Street Bridge over the
Norfolk Southern Railroad Company
and the GCRTA railroads lying
within the City of Cleveland (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes
to cooperate with the State in the
cost of the Improvement by assuming and contributing the entire cost
and expense of the Improvement,
including preliminary engineering
and environmental documentation,
and right-of-way acquisition, less
the amount of federal funds allocated by the Federal Highway Administration, United States Department of Transportation. Also, the
City agrees to assume and contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,

The City Record
which are determined by the State
not to be eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
the State necessary to complete the
planning and construction of the
Improvement,
which
agreements
shall contain terms and conditions
that the Director of Law determines
shall best protect the public interest.
Section 4. (a) That all existing
streets
and
public
rights-of-way
within the City that are necessary
for the Improvement shall be made
available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for
the Improvement the Director of
Public Service will arrange for its
acquisition.
(c) That the City agrees that all
right-of-way required for the described project will be acquired
and/or made available under current State and federal regulations.
The City also understands that
right-of-way costs include eligible
utility costs.
(d) That arrangements have been
or will be made with and agreements obtained from all utility companies whose lines or structures will
be affected by the Improvement.
That the companies have agreed to
make
any
and
all
necessary
rearrangements in such manner as
to be clear of any construction
called for by the plans for the
Improvement. That the companies
have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City or the State.
(e) That the installation of all
utility facilities on the right-of-way
shall conform with the requirements
of Title 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. That upon completion of
the Improvement, and unless otherwise agreed, the City shall:
(a) provide adequate maintenance
of the Improvement under all applicable state and federal laws, including, but not limited to, 213 USC 116;
(b) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement;
(c) maintain the right-of waykeeping it free of obstructions;
(d) hold the right-of-way inviolate
for public highway purposes; and
(e) That the installation of all
utility facilities on the right-of-way
shall conform with the requirements
of Title 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 6. That this Council requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 7. That the City agrees
that if Federal Funds are used to
pay the cost of any consultant contract, the City shall comply with 23
CFR 172 in the selection of its consultant and the administration of
the consultant contract. Further, the
City agrees to incorporate ODOT’s
“Specifications for Consulting Services” as a contract document in all
of its consultant contracts. The City
agrees to require, as a scope of services clause, that all plans prepared
by the consultant must conform to

280

March 10, 2010
ODOT’s current design standards
and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion
schedule acceptable to the State
and to assist the State in rating the
consultant’s
performance
through
ODOT’s Consultant Evaluation System.
Section 8. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
transmit to the State three (3) certified copies of this ordinance immediately on its taking effect, and it
shall become the basis for proceeding with the Improvement.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 304-10.
By Council Members Zone, Miller,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 7 of Ordinance No. 657-09,
passed June 8, 2009, relating to an
amendment to Contract No. 53362
with Euthenics, Inc. to provide additional design services relating to
the West 74th Street Bridge rehabilitation project, and to obtain
right-of-ways and easements and to
authorize contracts to implement the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 7 of Ordinance No. 657-09, passed June 8, 2009
is amended to read as follows:
Section 7. That the costs of the
contract amendment, property acquisition, and other payments authorized shall be paid from Fund Nos.
54 SF 001, 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20
SF 394, 20 SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF
510, 20 SF 520, and 20 SF 528,
Request No. 188486.
Section 2. That existing Section 7
of Ordinance No. 657-09, passed June
8, 2009 is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

The City Record

March 10, 2010
Ord. No. 305-10.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180,
603.02, 603A.04 and 604.99 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by various
ordinances, changing the name of
the Division of Dog Pound to the
Division of Animal Control Services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 135.16, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Sections 135.17, 135.18, and 135.180,
as amended by Ordinance No. 187106, passed December 11, 2006,
Section 603.02, as amended by
Ordinance No. 957-99, passed August
11, 1999,
Section 604A.03, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 536-01, passed June 3,
2002, and
Section 604.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 957-99, passed August
11, 1999
are amended to read as follows:
Section 135.16 Division of Animal
Control Services; Dog Warden; Spay
and Neuter Clinic; Fee
(a) There is established in the
Department of Public Safety, a Division of Animal Control Services,
which shall consist of one Chief Dog
Warden and at least one dog warden permanently assigned to each of
the five police districts on a fulltime basis, and other dog wardens
as the Director of Public Safety
deems necessary. All of these employees shall be uniformed employees under the control and management of the Director, who shall designate the kind of uniform to be
worn and direct the operation of the
Chief and other dog wardens.
(b) The Chief Dog Warden and all
other dog wardens are authorized to
give notice and issue citations to
anyone found to be in violation of
Section 603.02 or Section 603.04.
(c) There is established in the
Department of Public Safety, Division
of Animal Control Services, a Spay
and Neuter Clinic, to be administered
and controlled by a Veterinarian in
Charge, subject to the direction of the
Director of Public Safety. City residents may neuter or spay dogs or
cats for the following fees:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

Cat neuter
Cat spay
Dog neuter
Dog spay

$
$
$
$

25.00
30.00
35.00
40.00

All fees shall be paid to the City
of Cleveland at the time the neuter
or spay operation is performed.
Section 135.17 Acceptance of Gifts
and Services for the Division of Animal Control Services
The Director of Public Safety is
authorized to accept, with the grateful appreciation of the City, the

funds, other personal properties, and
services, unconditionally given or
limited by conditions as the donor
may impose, or unlimited as to specific use, as may from time to time
be donated for the use and benefit
of the Division of Animal Control
Services.
Section 135.18
Special Revenue
Fund Established for the Division of
Animal Control Services
All moneys accepted under Section
135.17 shall be placed to the credit
of the Division of Animal Control
Services in a special revenue fund.
The moneys deposited in the special
revenue fund shall be expended for
the benefit of the Division of Animal Control Services at the discretion of the Director of Public Safety, or in the manner and for the specific purpose named in the gift.
Section 135.180
Expenditure of
Donated Funds for the Division of
Animal Control Services
Expenditures from accounts shall
be made on vouchers signed by the
Director of Public Safety, or his
designee, when the amount is less
than ten thousand dollars ($10,000);
otherwise such expenditure shall
first be authorized by ordinance of
Council in the manner provided in
Charter Section 108. No part of any
funds credited to the accounts shall
be paid to or for the benefit of any
officer or employee, either as additional compensation or as reimbursement for expenses incurred, or
paid for purposes other than those
directly benefiting the Division of
Animal Control Services or in any
manner other than that applicable to
the expenditure of other public
funds, unless the payment is specifically provided for in the terms of
the gift or authorized by resolution
or ordinance of Council.
Section 603.02 Unmuzzled Dogs at
Large; Duty to Report
(a) No person shall permit an unmuzzled dog at any time to be on a
public street, highway, park, building or other public place except
when held securely in leash by the
owner or another responsible person
except when the dog is legally
engaged in training for the purpose
of hunting, herding, agility or dog
competition events, accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or a
handler.
(b) Every City employee, while in
the
performance
of
his
official
duties, who has in his possession or
under his control any radio transmitter and receiver, telephone or
other device ordinarily used for twoway
communication,
shall
immediately report to police officers or
dog wardens of the City the sighting of any unmuzzled dogs found to
be in a public place in violation of
this section. The employee shall
report the time, place, date and
description of the dog, together with
the employee’s name.
(c) If a violation of division (a)
of this section involves a dangerous
or vicious dog as defined in division
(b) or (k) of Section 604.01, the dog
shall be impounded under Section
603.02. Impoundment of a dangerous
or vicious dog because it was found
to be in violation of this section

281

5
shall not exempt the owner of the
dog from being prosecuted under
Section 604.99.
(d) Whoever violates this section
is guilty of permitting unmuzzled
dogs at large, and shall be fined not
less
than
one
hundred
dollars
($100.00) on the first offense, and on
each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) or more than two
hundred
fifty
dollars
($250.00),
which fine shall be mandatory, and
shall not be suspended or remitted.
(e) An amount equal to the
amount
of
fines
and
penalties
imposed under this section shall
annually be contributed to and used
for the benefit of the Division of
Animal Control Services.
Section 603A.04 Exemptions
Except
for
Sections
603A.14,
603A.15, 603A.16 and 603A.17, the provisions of which shall apply to all
persons, this chapter shall not apply
to any of the following:
(a) A person who keeps an exotic animal under a permit issued by
the United States or the State of
Ohio.
(b) A person whose duties include
the keeping or handling of exotic
animals,
while
the
person
is
engaged in that duty, and who is
employed by any of the following:
(1) The Division of Animal Control Services, Department of Public
Safety, City of Cleveland.
(2) The County kennels.
(3) The Cleveland Metroparks Zoo.
(4) The Animal Protective League.
(5) A licensed veterinary hospital
or clinic.
(6) A licensed or accredited research or medical institution.
(7) A facility licensed as an exhibitor or breeder by the United
States Department of Agriculture
under the Animal Welfare Act.
(8) A licensed or accredited educational institution, including museums.
(c) A person licensed as a wildlife rehabilitator under OHIO ADMIN.
CODE § 1501:31-25-03.
(d) A person temporarily transporting an exotic animal through
the City if the transit time is not
more than 24 hours and the animal
is at all times maintained within a
confinement sufficient to prevent
the exotic animal from escaping.
A person who holds a license
under OHIO REV. CODE ANN. §
1533.08 and corresponding regulations.
Section 604.99 Penalties
(a) If a violation of division (a),
(b) or (c) of Section 604.03 involved
a dangerous dog, whoever violates
that Section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree on a
first offense and of a misdemeanor
of the first degree on each subsequent offense and shall be fined one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) which
fine shall be mandatory, and shall
not be suspended or remitted. Additionally, the Court may order the
offender: (i) to personally supervise
the dangerous dog that he owns,
keeps or harbors, (ii) to cause that
dog to complete dog obedience training, (iii) to attend a class on responsible pet ownership and dog behavior, or (iv) to do all three. The

6
Court, in the alternative, may order
the dangerous dog to be humanely
destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the County Dog Warden, or the
County Humane Society. For repeat
offenders of animal control laws
under Sections 603.02 and 603.04, the
Court may require the owner to
attend a class on responsible pet
ownership and dog behavior.
(b) If a violation of division (a),
(b) or (c) of Section 604.03 involved
a vicious dog, whoever violates that
section may be found guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on
a first offense. When any person is
found guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree such person shall be
fined
one
thousand
dollars
($1,000.00) which fine shall be mandatory, and shall not be suspended
or remitted. The Court may order
the dog to be spayed or neutered at
the owner’s, keeper’s or harborer’s
expense.
Additionally,
the
Court
may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed
veterinarian, the County Dog Warden, or the County Humane Society.
(c) Any owner who does not obtain
the
liability
insurance
coverage
required under divisions (a) or (b) of
Section 604.04 shall be found guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(d) Any owner that is found to be
in violation of division (d) of Section 604.03 shall be found guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(e) Any owner that is found to be
in violation of division (d) of Section 604.02 shall be found guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(f) Any owner that is found to be
in violation of division (h) of Section 604.02 shall be found guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(g) Any owner found to own,
keep, or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious, altered, or invalid exemption
tag shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(h) Any exempted dog conforming
to division (k)(3) of Section 604.01
that is found to be in violation of
divisions (k)(1) or (k)(2) of Section
604.01 shall forfeit its exemption status permanently.
(i) Any owner who is found guilty
of violating divisions (c) or (d) of
Section 604.04 shall be found guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) on each subsequent
offense which fine shall be mandatory and shall not be suspended or
remitted.
(j) Any owner found guilty of violating this chapter shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food,
veterinary expenses for identification or certification of the breed of
the animal or boarding and veterinary expenses necessitated by the
seizure of the vicious or dangerous
dog for the protection of the public,
and such other expenses as may be
required for the destruction of any
such dog.
(k) An amount equal to the
amount of fines and penalties imposed pursuant to this section shall
annually be contributed to and used
for the benefit of the Division of
Animal Control Services.
(l) This Section shall not apply
whenever the conduct proscribed in
this chapter constitutes a felony
under RC 955.99.

The City Record
Section 2. That the existing Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 135.16, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Sections 135.17, 135.18, and 135.180,
as amended by Ordinance No. 187106, passed December 11, 2006,
Section 603.02, as amended by
Ordinance No. 957-99, passed August
11, 1999,
Section 604A.03, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 536-01, passed June 3,
2002, and
Section 604.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 957-99, passed August
11, 1999
are repealed.
Section 3. That any references
contained in the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the Division of Dog Pound, shall be amended to read the Division of Animal
Control Services, consistent with
this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is authorized, when publishing
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and any amendments, to change all references to
the Division of Dog Pound to read
the division of Animal Control Services.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 306-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 4 of
Ordinance No. 808-09, passed June 8,
2009, relating to constructing a bike
station in Gateway North Garage to
include constructing other improvements at both Gateway Garages.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 4 of Ordinance No. 80809, passed June 8, 2009, are amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
a bike station in Gateway North
Garage and constructing other improvements to the Gateway North
and Gateway East Garages; authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
one or more public improvement contracts to construct the improvement
and employ one or more professional consultants necessary to design
the improvement; authorizing the
Director to enter into a Lease By
Way of Concession for the operation
of the bike station with Downtown

282

March 10, 2010
Cleveland Alliance, for a period of
one year, with two three-year options to renew, and authorizing the
Director to enter into any other
agreements necessary to complete
the Improvement.
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing a bike station in Gateway North Garage and constructing
other improvements to the Gateway
North and Gateway East Garages
(the “Improvement”), for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, by one or more contracts duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the Improvement.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to design the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 4 of Ordinance
No. 808-09, passed June 8, 2009, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation,
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 307-10.
By Council Members Reed, Brancatelli, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 915-09,
passed July 1, 2009, relating to contract with Miles Shopping Plaza
LLC to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the construction of a new retail center located at Miles Avenue and
East 131st Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

March 10, 2010
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 915-09, passed July 1, 2009,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 915-09-B, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation, and are
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 915-09, passed July
1, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 308-10.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to employ one or
more professional services necessary to provide group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision and life insurance coverage, the medical reimbursement
accounts, dependent care accounts,
and premium pass-through benefits
under Internal Revenue Code Section 125 for City of Cleveland
employees, for a period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts in order to provide professional services necessary to provide
group medical, prescription, and
dental insurance coverage, vision
and life insurance coverage, the
medical reimbursement accounts, dependent care accounts, and premium
pass-through benefits under Internal
Revenue Code Section 125 for City
of Cleveland employees, for a period
of one year.
The selection of the carriers shall
be made by the Board of Control on
the nomination of the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources
from a list of qualified carriers as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources for
the purpose of compiling a list. The
cost to be paid for the contracts
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts autho-

The City Record
rized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Personnel and Human Resources, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the contracts shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain any conditions
and provisions that the Director
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including
terms related to which insurance
coverage will cover employees consistent with the terms of the collective bargaining agreements ratified
by the City, and the terms and conditions for transferring employees
from one plan to another as collective bargaining agreements are ratified by the City.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from funds appropriated in
budget year 2010 for this purpose,
Request No. RQN 0402 RL 2010-9.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Finance.
Ord. No. 310-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 5 of Ordinance
No. 852-09, passed July 1, 2009, relating to the Lake-to-Lakes Bike Trail
Project; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new Sections 4a.,
4b., 4c., 4d., 4e., and 4f.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 5 of Ordinance No. 852-09,
passed July 1, 2009, are amended to
read as follows:
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the Lake-to-Lakes Bike Trail; authorizing the Director of Public Service
to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts to construct
the improvement; authorizing the
director to employ one or more professional consultants necessary to
design the improvement; authorizing
the director to apply for and accept
grants from public and private entities for the improvement; authorizing the Director to accept cash contributions from public and private
entities, NEORSD, and GCRTA for
costs associated with the improvement and to enter into agreements;
and authorizing contracts with railroads, the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, or other entities; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to

283

7
acquire for right-of-way purposes
any real property and easements
necessary to make the improvement.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, payments, property acquisition, and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from Fund No.
20 SF 526, from the fund or funds
which are credited any grant proceeds and cash contributions accepted and appropriated under this ordinance, and from the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under Ordinance No.
463-09, passed April 20, 2009, and are
appropriated for this purpose, Request No. 188499.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 5 of Ordinance No. 85209, passed July 1, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 85209, passed July 1, 2009, is supplemented by adding new Sections 4a.,
4b., 4c., 4d., 4e., and 4f. to read as
follows:
Section 4a. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
for and accept grants from public
and private entities for the purpose
of funding the improvement authorized in this ordinance. The Director is further authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
these grants; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 4b. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to accept cash contributions from public
or private entities, NEORSD, and
GCRTA for infrastructure restoration costs associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing
utility infrastructure for the improvement. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into agreements with the entities for
this purpose.
Section 4c. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to acquire for right-of-way purposes any real property and easements as is necessary to make the
improvements described in this ordinance. The consideration to be paid
for the property and easements shall
not exceed fair market value.
Section 4d. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to execute on behalf of the City all documents necessary to acquire the property and easements and to employ
and pay all fees for title companies,
surveys, escrows, appraisers, and all
other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property and easements.
Section 4e. That, when appropriate, the Director of Public Service is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the railroads, the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority, or other entity to obtain
services or to acquire property
rights such as easements and licenses,
necessary
to
construct
the
improvements described in this ordinance.
Section 4f. That the Director of
Public Service, when necessary, is
authorized to cause payment to any
railroad, the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, or other
entity for payment of any services

The City Record

8
which were necessary to construct
the improvements described in this
ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 309-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to
Cuyahoga
Metropolitan
Housing
Authority.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 125-18-007
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the
Southerly 8 4/12 feet of Sublot No. 6
and the Northerly 26 6/12 feet of
Sublot No. 7 in John Rock’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 327 and 330 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps, Page 3 of Cuyahoga
County Records. Said parts of Sublot
Nos. 6 and 7 together form a parcel
of land having a frontage of 35 feet
on the Westerly side of East 75th
Street (formerly Herald Street) and
extending back between parallel
lines 125 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.

Section 3. That under Section 183.021
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized
to sell the real property, more fully
described below, to Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 125-18-017
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 30 feet of Sublot No. 49 in
John Rock’s Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos.
327 and 330, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps, Page
3 of Cuyahoga County Re, and being 30 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 73rd Street, (formerly
Dickerman Street), and extending
back of equal width 125 feet deep,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highway.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 5. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 125-18-025
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahogaand State, of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
No. 50 in the John Rock and.James
Parker’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 326,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 8 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being. 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East
71st
Street
(formerly
“B”
Street) and extending back of equal
width 125 feet to an alley, as appears by said plat, be the same more
or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 7. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 125-18-031
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot
No. 70 in John Rock and James
Parker’s Subdivision of part of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 326, as per plat
of said Subdivision recorded in Volume 8 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga
County Records. Said Sublot No. 70
has a frontage of 40 feet on the
Northerly side of Roy Avenue, S.E.

284

March 10, 2010
and extends back between parallel
lines 125 feet deep as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 9. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 125-18-035
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
54 and part of Sublot No. 55 in John
Rock and James Parker’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 326, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page
17
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and together forming a parcel of land bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line of
Roy Avenue, S.E., (40 feet wide) distant Easterly (measured along said
Southerly line of Roy Avenue, S.E.),
31.50 feet from the Northwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 55; thence
Easterly along said Southerly line
of Roy Avenue, S.E., 50.50 feet to its
intersection with the Westerly line
of East 71st Place (10 feet wide);
thence Southerly along said Westerly line of East 71st Place 147.23 feet
to the Southeasterly corner of said
Sublot No. 54; thence Westerly along
the Southerly line of said Sublots
Nos. 54 and 55, 84.72 feet to the
Southwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 55; thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 55,
67.98 feet to a point distant Southerly (measured along said Westerly
line of Sublot No. 55), 82.50 feet from
the Northwesterly corner there of;
thence Easterly along a line at right
angles to said Westerly line of
Sublot No. 55, 8.00 feet; thence Northeasterly in a direct line 36.94 feet to
a point distant Easterly at right
angles to said Westerly line of said
Sublot No. 55, 31.50 feet; thence
Northerly along a line parallel with
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
54, 54.00 feet to the place of beginning as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 11. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 125-19-031
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as Sublot No. 34 in
Whiting and Burt’s Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
327, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40

March 10, 2010
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 77th Street, and extending back
of equal width 135 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways. Subject to Restrictions, terms,
and conditions contained in the “University-Euclid General Neighborhood
Renewal Plan, Ohio R-32” and the
“University-Euclid
Urban
Renewal
Project 1, Ohio R-44” as approved and
set forth in Ordinance No. 1338-61,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, June 12, 1961, and recorded in Miscellaneous Volume 111, Page
9, and in Miscellaneous Volume 111,
Page
43,
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, on April 6, 1965, at 1:24 P M
and 1:25 P M, respectively. The next
preceding recorded instrument by or
through which title is claimed is in
Volume 8215, Page 67 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Section 13. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective date of this ordinance, or such
additional time as may be granted by
the Director of Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 14. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 15. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 16. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED.
Res. No. 311-10.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Sweeney, Cimperman, Pruitt,
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Conwell,
Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Reed, Westbrook and Zone.

The City Record
An emergency resolution supporting the passage of State Issue 1 on
May 4, 2010 to continue the Ohio
Third Frontier program.
Whereas, the Third Frontier initiative was created to preserve and
create jobs, enhance educational
opportunities, and improve the quality of life and general well-being of
people and businesses throughout
Ohio by expanding Ohio’s research
capabilities to promote product innovation, development and commercialization to create jobs; and
Whereas, the Third Frontier program has laid the foundation for the
creation and growth of technologybased jobs and businesses, increased
early stage capital investments, improved the environment for technology entrepreneurs, increased collaboration in research and development, and enhanced our economic
competitiveness and diversity; and
Whereas, the Third Frontier program has already created more than
48,000 jobs; and
Whereas, the State of Ohio’s Third
Frontier initiative has delivered
measurable results by investing $681
million since 2002, which has yielded $6.6 billion in economic activity;
and
Whereas, Issue 1 will continue to
foster job creation through the
advancement of new products and
services based on science and technology research and development,
thus ensuring Ohio’s ability to create and compete for jobs, today and
in the future; and
Whereas, the Ohio General Assembly deserves much appreciation for
its strong bipartisan support of the
Third Frontier program and its
placement
of
the
constitutional
amendment on the ballot; and
Whereas, the Ohio Third Frontier
Initiative is a grants program, supported by State of Ohio bonds, that
will support technology-based businesses and research efforts; focusing on the State’s strengths in technology and innovation to create
high-wage jobs, new growth companies, and globally competitive products; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland is
accordingly pleased to support the
Ohio Third Frontier Initiative program, and State Issue 1, because the
program funds Ohio’s most promising technologies.
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council and
Mayor Frank G. Jackson supports
and endorses the passage of State
Issue 1 on May 4, 2010, in order to
improve the quality of life for all
Ohioans by continuation of the Ohio
Third Frontier Program.
Section 2. That the Clerk shall
transmit certified copies of this Resolution to the governor, the Ohio
General Assembly and other interested constituencies.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

285

9
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 312-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Sweeney and Pruitt.
An emergency resolution recognizing the far-reaching importance
of the Health and Human Service
levy renewal, and supporting its
passage on Tuesday, May 4, 2010.
Whereas, the renewal of the Cuyahoga County Health and Human Services 2.9 mill levy will ensure that
children, seniors, and families continue to receive critical services;
and
Whereas, revenues generated by
the Health and Human Services levy
support:
• Critical emergency services,
such as the region’s only Level One
Trauma and Burn Center at MetroHealth, Metro Life Flight, and the
Neonatal Intensive Care Unit;
• Services to protect children who
are at risk of abuse and neglect and
early childhood;
• Services that help senior citizens to continue to live independently, in their own homes; and
• Early childhood programs that
ensure that all children enter school
healthy and ready to learn; and
Whereas, the levy is not a tax
increase; and
Whereas, this levy is a critical
piece of our community safety net,
available for all of us at any time;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council recognizes the far-reaching importance
of the Health and Human Service
levy renewal and supports its passage on Tuesday, May 4, 2010.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 313-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 1296
West 6th Street, and repealing Resolution No. 935-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 1296

10
West 6th Street by Resolution No.
935-09 adopted by the Council on
July 1, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to Mystery
Production, Inc., DBA Traffic, 1296
West 6th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 6275945 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 935-09, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 314-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3750
Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from 3750 MLK,
Inc., DBA Martin Luther King Savmor, 3750 Martin Luther King Jr.
Boulevard, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 8915130 to E. 116th Savmor
Food, Inc., DBA Martin Luther King
Savmor, 3750 Martin Luther King Jr.
Boulevard, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 2402515; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented rea-

The City Record
sonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from 3750 MLK, Inc.,
DBA Martin Luther King Savmor,
3750 Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
8915130 to E. 116th Savmor Food,
Inc., DBA Martin Luther King Savmor, 3750 Martin Luther King Jr.
Boulevard, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 2402515; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCE
Ord. No. 158-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
appropriations and provide current
expenses for the daily operation of
all municipal departments of the
City of Cleveland for the fiscal year
from January 1, 2010 until December
31, 2010.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance, when amended
as follows:
1. In Section 1, strike lines 3 and
4 to read as follows: “The sum of
Five Hundred Eleven Million, Three
Hundred
Fifty
Four
Thousand,
Eighty One Dollars ($511,354,081)

286

March 10, 2010
from the General Fund;”; and strike
lines 9 and 10 to read as follows:
“The sum of Six Hundred Forty Five
Million,
Eight
Hundred
Seventy
Three
Thousand,
Eight
Dollars
($645,873,008) from the Enterprise
Funds;”.
2. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “Judicial Branch”, strike
“40,312,220” and insert “40,352,220”.
3. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “Executive Branch”, at
“General Government” strike “7,705,947”
and insert “8,055,947”.
4. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “Executive Branch”, at
“Department of Public Health” strike
“5,747,791” and insert “5,620,812”.
5. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “Executive Branch”, at
“Department of Public Safety” strike
“303,296,063” and insert “303,690,205”.
6. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “Executive Branch”, at
“Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties” strike “36,748,966”
and insert “36,888,893”.
7. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “Executive Branch”, at
“Department of Building and Housing” strike “9,362,613” and insert
“9,427,613”.
8. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “Executive Branch”, at
“Nondepartmental” strike “39,911,035”
and insert “39,961,035”.
9. In Section 1, at “Enterprise
Funds” strike “647,721,283” and insert
“645,873,008”.
10. In Section 1, at “TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2010”, strike
“$1,311,511,710” and insert “$1,310,575,525”.
11. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “JUDICIAL BRANCH” at
“Municipal Court – Clerk’s Division” strike “14,381,653” and insert
“14,421,653”; at “I. Personnel and Related Expenses”, strike “9,095,356” and
insert “9,135,356”; and at “TOTAL
JUDICIAL BRANCH” strike “40,312,220”
and insert “40,352,220”.
12. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “EXECUTIVE BRANCH”
at “GENERAL GOVERNMENT” at
“Civil Service Commission”, strike
“948,664” and insert “1,298,664”; at “II.
Other Expenses” strike “402,673” and
insert “752,673”; and at “TOTAL
GENERAL GOVERNMENT” strike
“7,705,947” and insert “8,055,947”.
13. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “EXECUTIVE BRANCH”
at “GENERAL GOVERNMENT” at
“Department of Law”, at “Division of
Law” at “I. Personnel and Related
Expenses”
strike
“6,449,919”
and
insert “6,556,909”; and at “II. Other
Expenses”
strike
“1,794,564”
and
insert “1,687,574”.
13. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “EXECUTIVE BRANCH” at
“GENERAL GOVERNMENT” at “DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH”,
at
“Division
of
Health”
strike
“3,271,603” and insert “3,201,756” at
“II. Other Expenses” strike “1,324,057”
and insert “1,254,210”; at “Division of
Environment”, strike “1,215,816” and
insert “1,158,684”; at “II. Other Expenses” strike “211,043” and insert
“153,911”; and at “TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH” strike
“5,747,791” and insert “5,620,812”.
14. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “EXECUTIVE BRANCH”
at “GENERAL GOVERNMENT” at
“DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY”, at “Division of Police” strike

March 10, 2010
“173,671,754” and insert “173,822,597”
at “I. Personnel and Related Expenses” strike “165,101,714” and insert “165,221,057”; at “II. Other Expenses” strike “8,570,040” and insert
“8,601,540”; at “Division of Fire”, strike
“88,998,379” and insert “89,193,842”; at
“I. Personnel and Related Expenses”
strike “86,147,915” and insert “86,343,378”;
at Division of Dog Pound” strike
“1,020,408” and insert “1,068,244”; at
“I. Personnel and Related Expenses”,
strike “775,675” and insert “823,511”;
and at “TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF
PUBLIC SAFETY” strike “303,296,063”
and insert “303,690,205”.
15. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “EXECUTIVE BRANCH”
at “GENERAL GOVERNMENT” at
“DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND PROPERTIES”, at
“Division
of
Recreation”
strike
“13,059,387” and insert “13,202,284”; at
“I. Personnel and Related Expenses”
strike “9,189,927” and insert “9,332,824”;
at “Division of Property Management”, strike “8,464,567” and insert
“8,461,597”; at “I. Personnel and Related Expenses” strike “5,653,486” and
insert “5,650,516”; and at “TOTAL
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND PROPERTIES” strike
“36,748,966” and insert “36,888,893”.
16. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “EXECUTIVE BRANCH”
at “GENERAL GOVERNMENT” at
“DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND
HOUSING”, at “Building and Housing Dir Office” strike “1,799,076” and
insert “1,864,076”; at “II. Other Expenses” strike “286,575” and insert
“351,575”; and at “TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING” strike “9,362,613” and insert
“9,427,613”.
17. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “EXECUTIVE BRANCH”
at “GENERAL GOVERNMENT” at
“NONDEPARTMENTAL”, at “Other Administrative” strike “19,099,637” and
insert “19,149,637”; at “II. Other Expenses” strike “19,099,637” and insert
“19,149,637”, and at “TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL” strike “39,911,035”
and insert “39,961,035”.
18. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “EXECUTIVE BRANCH”
and at “GENERAL GOVERNMENT”
at “TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH”,
strike
“463,866,757”
and
insert
“464,738,847”.
19. In Section 1, at “GENERAL
FUND” at “EXECUTIVE BRANCH”
and at “GENERAL GOVERNMENT”
at “TOTAL GENERAL FUND”, strike
“510,441,991” and insert “511,354,081”.
20. In Section 1, at “ENTERPRISE
FUNDS”
at
“DEPARTMENT
OF
PORT CONTROL” at “Divisions of
Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront”, at “Airports – Operations” strike
“148,949,943” and insert “147,048,168”;
at “I. Personnel and Related Expenses” strike “28,063,744” and insert
“31,929,496”; at “II. Other Expenses”
strike
“120,886,199”
and
insert
“115,118,672”; and at “TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL”
strike
“148,949,943”
and
insert
“147,048,168”.
21. In Section 1, at “ENTERPRISE
FUNDS”
at
“DEPARTMENT
OF
PARKS RECREATION AND PROPERTIES” at “Golf Course Fund”, at
“I. Personnel and Related Expenses”
strike “985,151” and insert “1,006,951”;
at
“II.
Other
Expenses”
strike
“811,937” and insert “790,137”; at

The City Record
“Division of Parking Facilities-Off
Street Parking” strike “10,324,163”
and insert “10,342,163”; at “II. Other
Expenses” strike “9,183,573” and insert “9,201,573”; at “Division of Convention Center & Stadium – West
Side Market”, strike “1,078,780” and
insert “1,114,280”; at “II. Other Expenses” strike “710,628” and insert
“746,128”; and at “TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PARKS RECREATION
AND PROPERTIES” strike “35,104,330”
and insert “35,157,830”.
22. In Section 1, at “ENTERPRISE
FUNDS” at “TOTAL ENTERPRISE
FUNDS”,
strike
“647,721,283”
and
insert “645,873,008”.
Amendment agreed to.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1553-09.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Thornhill Road,
Eddy Road to Greater Friendship
Baptist Church.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1598-09.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 4300 East 124th Street
to Doris Jones, George Lentvor,
Jake Williams, Edwina Cook, Gurlena Al-Khabir, Raymond OwensJohnson, Sharon Deloach, Lawrence
Williams.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1726-09.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 11717 Kelton Avenue
to James Williams.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 29-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Mitchell, Miller, Cleveland, Sweeney,
Cimperman, Brancatelli, Zone and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 347.02 of the Codified Ordi-

287

11
nances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1562-08,
passed February 2, 2009, relating to
restrictions on the keeping of farm
animals and bees.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health,
Community
Development,
City Planning Commission, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health and Human Services, Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Legislation, Finance, when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 2, 3, 4,
and 5 in their entirety, and insert:
“To supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by
enacting new Section 347.02, relating
to restrictions on the keeping of”.
2. In Section 1, strike lines 1, 2,
and 3 in their entirety and insert:
“Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 347.02 to read as follows:”.
3. In Section 2, strike lines 1, 2,
and 3 in their entirety and insert:
“Section 2. That Section 347.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as enacted by this ordinance, shall expire and be of no further force and effect on June 1,
2011.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins,
Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane,
Kelley, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Pruitt, Reed, Westbrook and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Brady.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 132-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 552-09,
passed June 1, 2009, relating to appropriating Community Development
Block Grant, CDBG American Reinvestment & Recovery Act, and NEF
Administrative Costs funds for administrative expenses of the Department of Community Development;
and authorizing contracts.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 164-10.
By Council Members Miller, Polensek, Brancatelli and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development
to
apply
for
and
accept a grant from the United
States
Environmental
Protection
Agency for the Environmental Justice Small Grant Program; and

The City Record

12
authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more contracts with
Famicos Foundation and Collinwood and Nottingham Villages Development
Corporation,
or
their
designees, to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 165-10.
By
Council
Members
Mitchell,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, or
its designee, to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the construction of the Global Cardiovascular Innovation Center
and other associated costs necessary
to redevelop the property.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance, when amended as follows:
1. In Section 2, line 2, strike “16510-A” and insert “165-10-B”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 166-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
25th Street Partnership LLC, or its
designee, to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially
finance the construction and renovation of property located at 1947
West 25th Street and other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property.

Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 205-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Finance to
employ one or more temporary
employment agencies to provide professional services to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties and the Project
Clean program and for the Department of Finance, for a period not to
exceed one year.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Properties,
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 269-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Community and Economic Development Committee; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 270-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 4345 Lee Road to
Union Miles Development Corporation or designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved

March 10, 2010
of Community and Economic Development Committee; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 271-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at southwest corner of
East 119th Street and Miles Avenue
to Union Miles Development Corporation or designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Community and Economic Development Committee; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. Strike Section 13 in its entirety
and insert:
“Section 13. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyances authorized by this ordinance
shall be executed by December 31,
2010. If all of the documents are not
executed by December 31, 2010, the
authority granted by this ordinance
shall expire and be of no further
force and effect.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 272-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution approving the petitions from owners of
property in the Downtown Cleveland
Improvement District; and approving the comprehensive services plan
for the continuation of the operations of the Downtown Cleveland
Improvement District.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law;
adoption
recommended
by
Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

APPROPRIATION FOR THE YEAR 2010
(SECOND READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCE)
ORDINANCE NO. 158-10
Ord. No. 158-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of all municipal departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2010 until December 31, 2010.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year ending December
31, 2010, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Five Hundred Eleven Million, Three Hundred Fifty Four Thousand, Eighty One Dollars ($511,354,081)
from the General Fund;
The sum of Fifty Three Million, Five Hundred Eighty Three Thousand, Three Hundred Ninety Six Dollars
($53,583,396) from the Special Revenue Funds;
The sum of Twenty Seven Million, Two Hundred Twenty Six Thousand, Nine Hundred Fifty One Dollars
($27,226,951) from the Internal Service Funds;

288

The City Record

March 10, 2010

13

The sum of Six Hundred Forty Five Million, Eight Hundred Seventy Three Thousand, Eight Dollars ($645,873,008)
from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Ten Million, One Hundred Twenty Six Thousand, Seven Hundred Sixty Two Dollars ($10,126,762)
from the Trust and Agency Funds;
The sum of Sixty Two Million, Four Hundred Eleven Thousand, Three Hundred Twenty Seven Dollars
($62,411,327) from the Debt Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor’s Estimate on file with Council and identified in the aggregate amount for each
department as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
General Government
Department of Aging
Department of Personnel
Department of Consumer Affairs
Department of Law
Department of Finance
Department of Port Control
Department of Public Service
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties
Department of Building and Housing
Department of Economic Development
Nondepartmental
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH
TOTAL GENERAL FUND
Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Trust and Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2010

$

6,263,014
40,352,220

8,055,947
864,052
1,652,803
316,104
8,244,483
13,331,185
242,708
35,154,368
5,620,812
303,690,205
36,888,893
9,427,613
1,288,639
39,961,035
———————
$ 464,738,847
———————
———————
$ 511,354,081
———————
———————
$
53,583,396
27,226,951
645,873,008
10,126,762
62,411,327
———————
$1,310,575,525
––——————
––——————

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

6,263,014

4,586,639
1,676,375
––——————
$
6,263,014
––——————
––——————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

22,634,366

$

14,421,653

$

3,296,201

$ 20,072,417
2,561,949

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

9,135,356
5,286,297

Municipal Court - Housing Division
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

3,137,393
158,808
––——————
$
40,352,220
––——————
––——————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

289

$
$

2,144,245
137,264

2,281,509

14

The City Record

March 10, 2010

Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

171,557
4,433

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expensess
II.
Other Expenses

$

108,169
7,242

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

185,515
12,160

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

545,991
752,673

Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,081,477
80,795

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,437,019
76,328

$

5,696

Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

518,676
24,741

Office of Budget & Management-Budget Admin.
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

595,988
165,978

Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

175,990

$

115,411

$

197,675

$

1,298,664

$

1,162,272

$

1,513,347

$

5,696

$

543,417

$

761,966

––——————
$
8,055,947
––——————
––——————

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

864,052

734,825
129,227
––——————
$
864,052
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL
Office of Personnel
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$
$

1,652,803

1,064,453
588,350
––——————
$
1,652,803
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
Consumer Affair
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$
$

316,104

274,712
41,392
––——————
$
316,104
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Division of Law
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

8,244,483

6,556,909
1,687,574
––——————
$
8,244,483
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

290

March 10, 2010

The City Record

15

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

777,987
64,506

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,261,239
631,444

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,296,933
911,711

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

574,575
87,387

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

514,810
34,700

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

568,382
372,039

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,301,295
32,821

Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,099,075
1,629,932

Information Tech & Planning
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

155,862
16,487

$

842,493

$

1,892,683

$

3,208,644

$

661,962

$

549,510

$

940,421

$

1,334,116

$

3,729,007

$

172,349

––——————
$
13,331,185
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Division of Harbors
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

242,708

93,408
149,300
––——————
$
242,708
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
Public Service Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

374,874
25,645

Division of Architecture
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

522,306
27,755

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

4,263,491
476,904

Division of Traffic Engineering
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,897,744
992,798

291

400,519

$

550,061

$

25,572,851

$

4,740,395

$

3,890,542

$ 15,126,083
10,446,768

Division of Engineering and Construction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

$

––——————
$
35,154,368
––——————
––——————

16

The City Record

March 10, 2010

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

573,549
259,612

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,947,546
1,254,210

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,004,773
153,911

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

145,711
281,500

$

833,161

$

3,201,756

$

1,158,684

$

427,211

––——————
$
5,620,812
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$165,221,057
8,601,540

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 86,343,378
2,850,464

Division of Emergency Medical Services
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$ 19,133,156
2,296,438

Division of Dog Pound
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

$

3,418,827

$

173,822,597

$

89,193,842

$

21,429,594

$

1,068,244

$

14,757,101

2,328,111
1,090,716

823,511
244,733

$ 11,339,732
3,417,369
––——————
$ 303,690,205
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Parks, Recreation, and Properties Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

549,986
145,213

Division of Research, Planning, and Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

664,066
76,149

Division of Recreation
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

9,332,824
3,869,460

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,197,750
59,865

Division of Property Management
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

5,650,516
2,811,081

292

$

695,199

$

740,215

$

13,202,284

$

1,257,615

$

8,461,597

The City Record

March 10, 2010

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

17
$
$

12,531,983

7,987,606
4,544,377

TOTAL DEPT. OF PARKS, REC., AND PROPERTIES

––——————
$
36,888,893
––——————
––——————

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,512,501
351,575

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,831,335
174,552

Division of Construction Permit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,539,995
17,655

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

$

1,864,076

$

6,005,887

$

1,557,650

––——————
$
9,427,613
––——————
––——————

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,288,639

1,224,726
63,913

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

––——————
$
1,288,639
––——————
––——————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.
Other Expenses

$

Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses

$ 19,149,637

Transfers to Other Funds
Other Expenses
II.

$ 18,375,223

$

2,436,175

$

19,149,637

$

18,375,223

2,436,175

––——————
$
39,961,035
––——————
––——————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$ 464,738,847
––——————
––——————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$ 511,354,081
––——————
––——————
SPECIAL REVENUE FUND

Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
Capital
Debt Service
II.

$

$

32,917,751

$

19,665,645

$

1,000,000

8,142,916
24,774,835

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 13,592,156
6,073,489

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,000,000
––——————
$
53,583,396
––——————
––——————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Information Systems Services-Telephone Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
Other Expenses
II.

293

$
1,129,075
5,337,823

6,466,898

The City Record

18

March 10, 2010

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

$

2,468,496

$

873,108

863,054

Other Expenses

1,605,442

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.

17,418,449

11,587,516

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.

$
5,830,933

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

96,188

Other Expenses

776,920
––——————
$
27,226,951
––——————
––——————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

Other Expenses

II.

3,274,428

$

262,912,973

$

22,725,965

$

170,214,862

386,328

Personnel and Related Expenses

$ 79,498,526

Other Expenses

183,414,447

Personnel and Related Expenses

$ 10,588,455

Other Expenses

12,137,510

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.

$
2,888,100

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.

1,974,855

1,557,790

Division of Water
I.

$
417,065

Division of Fiscal Control
I.

2,563,927

587,211

Radio
I.

$
1,976,716

Personnel and Related Expenses

$ 28,251,992

Other Expenses

141,962,870
––——————
$ 463,667,010
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
Airports - Operations
I.
II.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses

147,048,168

$ 31,929,496

Other Expenses

115,118,672
––——————
$ 147,048,168
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Division of Cemeteries
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

1,755,189

$

1,797,088

476,942

Golf Course Funds
I.

$
1,278,247

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$

1,006,951
790,137

294

The City Record

March 10, 2010

19

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

10,342,163

$

4,643,302

$

1,114,280

$

15,465,808

$

40,000

9,201,573

Division of Convention Center
I.

$
1,140,590

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

1,819,746

Other Expenses

2,823,556

Division of Convention Center & StadiumWest Side Market
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

368,152

Other Expenses

746,128

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Stadium
II.

Other Expenses

$ 15,465,808

Division of Property Management East Side Market
II.

Other Expenses

$

40,000

––——————
$
35,157,830
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPT. OF PARKS, REC., AND PROPERTIES
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$ 645,873,008
––——————
––——————

AGENCY FUND

Central Collection Agency
I.
II.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

10,126,762

6,218,304

Other Expenses

3,908,458

––——————
TOTAL AGENCY FUND

$
10,126,762
––——————
––——————

DEBT SERVICE FUND

Sinking Fund Commission
I.
II.
III.

$ 62,411,327

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$

175,176
423,568

Debt Service

61,812,583

––——————
$
62,411,327
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the Mayor’s
Estimate, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for I. - Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. - Other Expenses and are not severally and individually appropriated in
said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 2009 is hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 2010 or prior years. The Mayor’s
Estimate, File No 158-10-A as modified by the schedule published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter shall within the sums appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure budget for the year 2010 and shall be
subject to the control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer from I. - Personnel and Related Expenses, or II. - Other Expenses within any department or office, or from one department or office to another shall be
made except as provided in Section 41 of the Charter.
Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is hereby authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury
for the amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of
the department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed
by law.

295

The City Record

20

March 10, 2010

Schedule of Changes
(Published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter)
The following changes are made to provide for reductions/increases in various departments of City Government: to correct the total of the 2010 Appropriation Ordinance No. 158-10.
2010 Mayor’s Estimate Ordinance
GENERAL FUND

DIFFERENCE

Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
General Government
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties
Department of Building and Housing
Nondepartmental
Total Executive Branch

$

40,000
350,000
(126,979)
394,142
139,927
65,000
50,000
872,090

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

912,090

Enterprise Funds

(1,848,275)
_____________
$
(936,185)
_____________
_____________

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2010

GENERAL FUND
JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
I Personnel and Related Expenses

$
$

40,000

40,000
_____________
$
40,000
_____________
_____________

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Civil Service Commission
II Other Expenses

$
$

350,000

350,000
_____________
$
350,000
_____________
_____________

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Division of Law
I Personnel and Related Expenses
II Other Expenses

$

-

$
106,990
$ (106,990)
_____________
$
_____________
_____________

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Division of Health
II Other Expenses

$

(69,847)

Division of Environment
II Other Expenses

$

(57,132)

$

(69,847)

$

(57,132)

_____________
$
(126,979)
_____________
_____________

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Division of Police
I Personnel and Related Expenses
II Other Expenses
Division of Fire
I Personnel and Related Expenses
Division of Dog Pound
I Personnel and Related Expenses

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

296

$
$

119,343
31,500

$

195,463

$

47,836

$

150,843

$

195,463

$

47,836

_____________
$
394,142
_____________
_____________

The City Record

March 10, 2010

21

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Division of Recreation
I Personnel and Related Expenses

$

142,897

Division of Property Management
I Personnel and Related Expenses

$

(2,970)

$

142,897

$

(2,970)

_____________
$
139,927
_____________
_____________

TOTAL DEPT. OF PARKS, REC., AND PROPERTIES

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir Office
II Other Expenses

$
$

65,000

65,000
_____________
$
65,000
_____________
_____________

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

NONDEPARTMENTAL
Other Administrative
II Other Expenses

$
$

50,000

50,000

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL

_____________
$
50,000
_____________
_____________

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

_____________
$
872,090
_____________
_____________

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

_____________
$
912,090
_____________
_____________
ENTERPRISE FUNDS

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
Airports - Operations
I Personnel and Related Expenses
$ 3,865,752
II Other Expenses
$(5,767,527)

$

(1,901,775)

_____________
$ (1,901,775)
_____________
_____________

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Golf Course Fund
I Personnel and Related Expenses
II Other Expenses

$
$

21,800
(21,800)

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
II Other Expenses

$

18,000

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-West Side Market
35,500
II Other Expenses
$

$

-

$

18,000

$

35,500

TOTAL DEPT. OF PARKS, REC., AND PROPERTIES

_____________
53,500
$
_____________
_____________

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

_____________
$ (1,848,275)
_____________
_____________

Ordinance No. 158-10 is herein published following the Public Hearing and
before the third reading and final passage and reflects the necessary amendments required by this schedule.

297

The City Record

22
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:50 p.m. to meet on Monday, March 15,
2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

March 3, 2010
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, March 3, 2010,
at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi
presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Others: James Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Natoya Walker, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 79-10.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and by
products during the month of February,
2010
in
the
amount
of
$17,376.37, attached and made a part
of this resolution, is received, approved and ordered filed.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 80-10.
By Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Call Center
Consulting Inc., except for such

terms and conditions as are unacceptable to the Director of Law, for
the purchase of software, hardware,
and installation for an Automated
Call Center, all items, for the Department of Finance, on behalf of
the
Clerk
of
Courts,
Cleveland
Municipal Court, received on December 3, 2009, which on the basis of
the order quantity would amount to
$9,830.00, is approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is requested to enter into
contract for the items with the bidder.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 81-10.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 158-09, passed June 1,
2009 by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase property in the vicinity of
24101 Aurora Road, aka Permanent
Parcel Number 791-11-009, for the
implementation of the Aurora Road
project;
Whereas, Ordinance No. 158-09 provides that the consideration to be
paid for this property shall not
exceed fair market value as determined by the Board of Control; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
158-09, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 1, 2009,
that the consideration to be paid for
the property located west of 24101
Aurora Road, aka Permanent Parcel
Number 791-11-009, shall be $47,000.00,
which amount is determined not to
exceed fair market value.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 82-10.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 500-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 2, 2008, and Resolution No. 24109, adopted by this Board on June
17, 2009, the City, through its Director of Public Utilities, entered into
City Contract No. 69444 with Dominion Products and Services, Inc. to
provide the professional services
necessary to develop, market, implement and manage a Water and
Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan
Program, for a period of five years,
with one option by the Director of
Public Utilities to renew for an additional five year period, for the Divisions of Water and Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities, and

298

March 10, 2010
Whereas, the City has learned
that Resolution No. 241-09 did not
list all available combinations of
Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection
Plan
programs
and
the
monthly fees to be charged to customers for them; and
Whereas; the City desires that
Dominion offer to customers under
Contract No. 69444 all available combinations of the above mentioned
customer service programs; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 241-09, adopted June
17, 2009, under the authority of Ordinance No. 500-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 2, 2008, approving Dominion
Products and Services, Inc. to provide the professional services necessary to develop, market, implement and manage a Water and
Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan
Program, for a period of five years,
with one option, exercisable by the
Director of Public Utilities, to renew
for an additional five year period,
for the Divisions of Water and
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, is amended
by deleting the original list of customer
service
programs
to
be
offered and the monthly fees for
each and substituting the following:
Service Description

Monthly Charge
CWD Admin
Surcharge Included

Individual Programs
Water Line Replacement

$3.25
$0.25

Sewer Line Repair

$4.75
$0.25

In Home Plumbing Repair

$4.95
$0.25

Premium In Home
Plumbing Repair
(includes fixtures)

$8.50
$0.25

Combination Programs
Water Line Replacement
and Sewer Line Repair

Water Line Replacement
and In Home Plumbing
Repair

Water Line Replacement
and Premium In Home
Plumbing Repair

Sewer Line Repair and
In Home Plumbing Repair

Sewer Line Repair and
Premium In Home
Plumbing Repair

Water Line Replacement,
Sewer Line Repair and
In Home Plumbing Repair

$7.00
$0.50

$7.20
$0.50

$10.75
$0.50

$8.70
$0.50

$12.25
$0.50

$10.95
$0.75

The City Record

March 10, 2010
Water Line Replacement,
Sewer Line Repair and
Premium In Home
Plumbing Repair

$14.50
$0.75

Preferred Restoration Programs
Water Line Replacement
Preferred Restoration

Sewer Line Repair
Preferred Restoration

$1.50
$0.10

$1.75
$0.10

Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
241-09 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to execute all documents and
to do all things necessary to amend
Contract No. 69444 to effect the
amendment to Resolution No. 241-09
approved above.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 83-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that under Ordinance No. 1724-09,
passed February 8, 2010, by the
Council of the City of Cleveland, the
firm of HWH Architects, Engineers,
Planners, Inc. (“Architect”) is selected upon the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of
qualified firms available for such
employment and determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Service as the
firm of architects to be employed by
contract for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the Division of Architecture
in order to provide the professional
services necessary for the rehabilitation of various Department of Public Service facilities.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into a written contract
with HWH Architects, Engineers,
Planners, Inc., based upon its proposal dated September 3, 2009, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director and shall include such additional provisions as she deems necessary to benefit and protect the
public interest. The total compensation to the Architect for all services
under the contract authorized shall
not exceed $91,000.
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subconsultants by HWH Architects,
Engineers, Planners, Inc. is approved:
Sandhu & Associates
(CSB/MBE) — $14,000.00 — (15.385%)
Bonnie E. Smith, Architect
(CSB/FBE) — $15,000.00 — (16.484%)

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 84-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No 1273-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
December 7, 2009, DLZ Ohio, Inc. is
selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Public Service from a
list of qualified engineering consultants or firms of such consultants determined to be available
after a full and complete canvass
by the Director of Public Service as
the firm to be employed by contract
to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City to obtain the
engineering services necessary for
the Reconstruction of Cedar Avenue from East 21st Street to East
55th Street.
Be it further resolved that the Director of Public Service is authorized to
enter into a written contract with DLZ
Ohio, Inc. based on its proposal dated
November 20, 2009, as amended by its
revised cost proposal dated February
10, 2010, provided that the compensation to be paid shall not exceed
$324,267.00. The agreement authorized
hereby shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain such
other provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by DLZ Ohio, Inc. for the
above authorized contract is approved:
Michael Benza & Associates
(CSB) — $81,249.00 — (25.056%)
Pro Geotech
(CSB/MBE) — $10,111.00 — (3.118%)
Ohio Test Bor, Inc.
$1,200.00
C.P. Braman
(CSB/FBE) — $2,850.00 — (0.879%)
SE Blueprint
(CSB/FBE) — $ 7,415.00 — (2.287%)
KS Associates
$13,700.00
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 85-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Valley Ford Truck, for an
estimated quantity of five cab and
chassis with box van bodies, and

299

23
related equipment, all items, including
option #1 on all vehicles, and option
#2 on two vehicles, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period
of one year beginning with the date
of execution of a contract, received on
November 19, 2009, under the authority of Ordinance No. 902-07, passed by
Cleveland City Council on July 11,
2007, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$267,180.00 (Net), is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and
the Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement
contract for the goods and/or services,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in the sum
of $267,180.00.
The requirement contract shall further provide that the Contractor shall
furnish the remainder of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 86-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Ohio Machinery dba Ohio
CAT for an estimated quantity of Barber Greene road pavers parts and
labor, and Caterpillar equipment parts
and labor, all items, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period
of 3 years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
November 19, 2009, under the authority of Section 131.17 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $300,000.00
(Net), is affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director
of Public Service is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which contract
shall provide for an initial order, the
cost of which shall be certified to the
contract in the sum of $50,000.00.
The requirement contract shall further provide that the Contractor shall
furnish the remainder of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 87-10.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,

24
that all bids received on February
4, 2010 for cleaning the West Side
Market for the Department of Parks,
Recreation & Properties under the
authority of Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 88-10.
By Acting Secretary Workman.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
678-09, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 1, 2009,
EB Jacobs, LLC is selected on nomination of the Secretary of the Civil
Service Commission from a list of
firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Secretary
of the Civil Service Commission, to
be employed by contract to supplement the regularly employed staff
of several departments of the City
of Cleveland to perform the professional services necessary to develop,
administer, and grade Firefighter
tests
and
perform
a
statistical
analysis for the classification of
Firefighter.
Be it further resolved that the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission is authorized to enter into contract with EB Jacobs, LLC based on
its proposal dated January 6, 2010,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
for the furnishing of professional
services as described in the proposal for an aggregate fee not to
exceed $431,775.00, and shall contain
such additional provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 89-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 275-09, passed March 30,
2009, by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, by
and at the direction of the Board of
Control, to convey the following real
property located at 18900 Fairville
Avenue, and further known as Permanent Parcel Number 026-26-052, and
no longer needed for public use, to
Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation, or its designee; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
275-09, passed March 30, 2009, by the
Council of the City of Cleveland, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby directed to convey Per-

The City Record
manent Parcel Number 026-26-052, the
real property as described in Ordinance No. 275-09, no longer needed for
public use, to Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation, or its designee.
The consideration to be paid for the
property shall be $1.00 and other valuable consideration, which amount is
determined to be not less than fair
market value.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland is
hereby requested to execute and
deliver the official deed of the City
of Cleveland, which document shall
contain such additional terms and
conditions as the Director of Law
shall deem necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 90-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a Land
Reutilization Program according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, Section 183.024, Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire certain
properties owned by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) and Fannie Mae, each for a
price determined as Fair Market
Value, as part of the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 183.024, the City has acquired
Permanent Parcel No. 132-20-102, located at 7012 Lansing from HUD; and
Whereas, Slavic Village Development has proposed to the City to purchase the property for rehabilitation
and/or redevelopment; and
Whereas, Section 183.024 authorizes
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies, when directed by the Director of Community Development, and
with the prior written consent of the
Council member(s) in whose ward the
property acquired from HUD or Fannie Mae to be sold is located, to convey the property to purchasers for the
public
purpose
of
rehabilitation
and/or resale for consideration established by the Board of Control at not
less than fair market value; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Section 183.024,
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the consideration for the
sale of Permanent Parcel No. 132-20102 to Slavic Village Development is
established as $375.00, which amount
is determined to be not less than fair
market value taking into account
such terms and conditions, restrictions and covenants as are deemed
necessary or appropriate.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,

300

March 10, 2010
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 91-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a Land
Reutilization Program according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, Section 183.024, Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire certain
properties owned by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) and Fannie Mae, each for a
price determined as Fair Market
Value, as part of the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 183.024, the City has acquired
Permanent Parcel No. 132-10-060, located at 3792 East 53rd Street from HUD;
and
Whereas, Slavic Village Development has proposed to the City to purchase the property for rehabilitation
and/or redevelopment; and
Whereas, Section 183.024 authorizes
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies, when directed by the Director of Community Development, and
with the prior written consent of the
Council member(s) in whose ward the
property acquired from HUD or Fannie Mae to be sold is located, to convey the property to purchasers for the
public
purpose
of
rehabilitation
and/or resale for consideration established by the Board of Control at not
less than fair market value; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Section 183.024,
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the consideration for the
sale of Permanent Parcel No. 132-10060 to Slavic Village Development is
established as $375.00, which amount
is determined to be not less than fair
market value taking into account
such terms and conditions, restrictions and covenants as are deemed
necessary or appropriate.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 92-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a Land
Reutilization Program according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, Section 183.024, Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire certain
properties owned by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development

March 10, 2010
(HUD) and Fannie Mae, each for a
price determined as Fair Market
Value, as part of the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 183.024, the City has acquired
Permanent Parcel No. 138-011-17, located at 11821 Avon from HUD; and
Whereas, Two Brothers Rehab and
Renovation LLC has proposed to the
City to purchase the property for
rehabilitation and/or redevelopment;
and
Whereas, Section 183.024 authorizes
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies, when directed by the Director of Community Development, and
with the prior written consent of the
Council member(s) in whose ward the
property acquired from HUD or Fannie Mae to be sold is located, to convey the property to purchasers for the
public
purpose
of
rehabilitation
and/or resale for consideration established by the Board of Control at not
less than fair market value; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that under the authority of Section
183.024
Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the consideration for the sale of Permanent
Parcel No. 138-01-117 to Two Brothers Rehab and Renovation LLC is
established
as
$375.00,
which
amount is determined to be not less
than fair market value taking into
account such terms and conditions,
restrictions and covenants as are
deemed necessary or appropriate.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 93-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, Section 183.024, Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, authorizes the Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies
to
acquire certain properties owned
by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) and
Fannie Mae, each for a price determined as Fair Market Value, as
part of the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 183.024, the City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 123-22007, located at 4976 Mead Avenue
from HUD; and
Whereas, Affordable Demolition
and Hauling has proposed to the
City to purchase the property for
rehabilitation and/or redevelopment;
and
Whereas, Section 183.024 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by
the Director of Community Development, and with the prior written

The City Record
consent of the Council member(s) in
whose ward the property acquired
from HUD or Fannie Mae to be sold
is located, to convey the property to
purchasers for the public purpose of
rehabilitation and/or resale for consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than fair market value; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under
the
authority
of
Section
183.024,
Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the consideration for the sale of Permanent Parcel
No.
123-22-007
to
Affordable
Demolition and Hauling is established as $375.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than fair
market value taking into account
such terms and conditions, restrictions and covenants as are deemed
necessary or appropriate.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
Resolution No. 94-10.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Panzica Construction
Company
for
the
public
improvement of Collinwood Recreation Center, for Base Bid Gross
Prices and Add Alternate Items 18, 11 and 13-17, for the Division of
Research,
Planning
&
Development, Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties, received on
February
19,
2010,
under
the
authority of Ordinance Nos. 451-08
and 597-09, passed on June 9, 2008
and June 8, 2009, upon a gross price
basis for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $9,852,150.00,
is affirmed and approved as the
lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Department of Parks,
Recreation & Properties is authorized to enter into contract for the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Panzica Construction Company for
the aforementioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Miles Mechanical
(CSB/MBE)

$1,080,500.00
10.967%

WesternReserveInteriors
(CSB/FBE)

$ 319,900.00
3.247%

25
Start to Finish (CSB/MBE) $ 245,000.00
2.487%
North Electric

$ 159,300.00
1.617%

Down to Earth
Landscaping (CSB/FBE) $ 154,769.00
1.571%
KLE Construction
(CSB/MBE)

$ 126,000.00
1.279%

MACMechanical(CSB/FBE) $

95,000.00
0.964%

M. Riveria Construction
(CSB/MBE)

$

93,000.00
0.944%

Lakeland Electric

$

53,100.00
0.539%

JC Sharp (CSB/FBE)

$

24,398.00
0.248%

Pete and Pete (CSB/FBE)

$

20,700.00
0.210%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Smith,
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask, Cox, Acting Director Wilbur,
Directors Nichols, Fumich, Acting
Director
Mahoney
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Acting Director West.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.

VIP Restoration (CSB)

$ 315,000.00
2.487%

Comm Steel (CSB/MBE)

$ 290,000.00
2.944%

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.

Xtreme Elements

$ 245,544.00
2.492%

REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

301

The City Record

26
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

March 10, 2010

The following appeals were Withdrawn:
None.
The following appeals were Postponed:

MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2010
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 10-26: 1969 East 119th
Street (Ward 9)
Little Italy Development, LLC,
owner of the property located at
1969 East 119th Street, appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02 (d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances from
a Notice of Violation issued by the
Department of Building and Housing on February 2, 2010 for failure
to comply with the provisions of the
City of Cleveland Zoning Code as
stated in Section 327.02(c), Sections
349.07(a) and (b), Section 349.08 and
Section 350.04 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

Calendar No. 10-17: 5608 Hough Avenue (Ward 7) postponed to April
19, 2010.
Calendar No. 10-18: 5614 Hough Avenue (Ward 7) postponed to April
19, 2010.
Calendar No. 10-19: 5616 Hough Avenue (Ward 7) postponed to April
19, 2010.
Calendar No. 09-233: 7310 Fleet Avenue (Ward 12) postponed to May
17, 2010.
The following appeals were Dismissed:
None.

Calendar No. 10-27: 3162 East 93rd
Street (Ward 6)
Orealous
Caldwell,
owner,
appealed for a variance from the Specific Use Regulations and permission to expand the use as a barber
shop to include a tattoo shop, in an
existing one-story building on a 50'
x 165' parcel located in a General
Retail Business District on the west
side of East 93rd Street at 3162 East
93rd Street; subject to location regulations for specific uses, a tattoo
use shall not be established within
1,000 feet of a residential district or
a day care center, a school, public
library, a church, a playground, a
public or nonprofit recreation center
or a community center, and no such
use shall be established within 1,000
feet of another such use as stated
in Sections 347.12(b)(1) and (2) of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 8, 2010
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
8, 2010, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 10-5: 3837 Ridge Road
(Ward 15)
WHS Services, Inc., owner, and
Salem Hasrouni, tenant, appealed
to add entertainment/dance hall
use to an existing tavern in a SemiIndustry District; subject to conditions.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 09-244: 1678 Leonard
Avenue (Ward 3)
Mike Hirko, owner, and Scott
Rogers, tenant, appealed to change
from factory/warehouse to a private club the use of an existing
building in a General Industry District.

The following appeals heard by
the Board on March 1, 2010 were
adopted and approved on March 8,
2010.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 10-15: 13813 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 18)
Joseph Coreno, owner, and Richard Eucker, tenant dba The Closing
Room, appealed from the recommendation of the Public Safety
Department to disapprove a Music
License.

premises known as 7708 Star Avenue
from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION
ORDER — MS, dated December 23,
2002 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-317-09 has been WITHDRAWIN, at the request of the
Appellant.
*

Calendar No. 09-266: 18605 Flamingo
Avenue (Ward 19)
Mack Cameron appealed to erect a
wheelchair ramp to a single family
dwelling in an A1 One-Family District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
March 3, 2010
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-317-09.
RE: Appeal of Debra Wilson,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two and One/half Story Frame Residential Property located on the

302

*

Docket A-342-09.
RE: Appeal of Corrine P. Croom,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
2795 East 124th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated April
7, 2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant three (3) months in which
to complete abatement of the final
violations on the property. The property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

Calendar No. 09-255: 6021 Memphis
Avenue (Ward 13)
James Souris appealed to change
from a gas station to a restaurant
the use of a one-story building on a
corner parcel in a Local Retail Business District.

*

*

*

Docket A-343-09.
RE: Appeal of Deirdre J. Lauer,
Owner of the MXD Mixed Uses —
Multiple Uses In One Building Two
Story Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry
Veneer Property located on the
premises known as 2900 Independence Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated January 26, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ten (10) months in which
to complete abatement of all violations. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-344-09.
RE: Appeal of Aretmus Hall,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 10718 Arthur
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated September

The City Record

March 10, 2010
30, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of all violations on the property. The property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-345-09.
RE: Appeal of Green Apple Properties LLC, Owner of the Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence
Two
and
One/half
Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 1901 Rowley
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated August 31, 2009 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-345-09 have been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for March
17, 2010.
*

*

*

Docket A-346-09.
RE: Appeal of West Bethel Baptist
Church, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single Family Residence Three
Story Frame/Siding/Masonry Veneer
Property located on the premises
known as 5209 Franklin Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
September 4, 2009 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-346-09 have been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for March
17, 2010.
*

*

*

Docket A-347-09.
RE: Appeal of The Loan Place,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
1538 East 70th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 21, 2009
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant four (4) weeks in which
to obtain all permits and six (6)
months in which to abate all violations. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further

action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-348-09.
RE: Appeal of Ebony Gill, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Garage Property located on the premises known as 12716
Brackland Avenue from a CONDEMNATION ORDER, dated July 31, 2009
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appeal and to REMAND the property at 12716 Brackland Avenue to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting the absence of
the Appellant. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-349-09.
RE: Appeal of Philip E. Pavarini,
Owner of the S-1 Storage — Moderate
Hazard
(Combustibles)
One
Story Masonry Property located on
the premises known as 2900 Independence Road from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated September 3, 2009
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date.
*

*

*

Docket A-350-09.
RE: Appeal of Jon D. Patterson,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
11706 Fairport Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 6, 2009
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal and to REMAND the property at 11706 Fairport Avenue to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan Nays: None
Absent: Mr. Gallagher
*

*

*

Docket A-352-09.
RE: Appeal of Shirley A. Ward,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and

303

27
One/half Story Masonry Property
located on the premises known as
914 East 130th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 9,
2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is
in order at this time to grant the
Appellant four (4) weeks in which
to obtain permits and six (6)
months in which to abate all violations. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action, noting that the property is
REMANDED automatically if either
date is not met. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-353-09.
RE: Appeal of Lonesore Chaney,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
4100 East 141st Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 10,
2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant four (4) weeks in which
to obtain permits and six (6) months
in which to abate all violations.
Failing to meet either date, will
REMANDING the property automatically to the Department of Building
and Housing for further action. The
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-354-09.
RE: Appeal of David G. Williams,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 3835 East 154th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated September 24, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant three (3) months in which
to abate the violations. The property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required

The City Record

28
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-408-09.
RE: Appeal of Maria Keckan,
Owner of the A-2 Assembly — Nite
Clubs, Restaurants One Story Masonry Property located on the premises
known as 1616 West 25th Street
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER,
dated November 20, 2009 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-408-09 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*

*

*

Docket A-446-09.
RE: Appeal of International Specialty Produce, Inc., Owner of the
Property located on the premises
known as 3800 Woodland Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
FIRE CODE, dated June 4, 2009 of
the Chief of the Division of Fire,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
No action at this time, noting that
docket will be rescheduled in sixty
(60) days, expecting a review of the
use of the building, the determination of a sprinkler system requirement, and a schedule of implementation of whatever solutions are
agreed upon.
*

*

*

Docket A-18-10.
RE: Appeal of John Peicu, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 2009 West 81st
Street from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER, dated December 23, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and
the
Ohio
Building
Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the request for a variance for the sprinkler
system with the six (6) occupants.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-30-10.
RE: Appeal of Tree of Knowledge
Learning Center Inc. C/O Jackson
Comfort Systems, Owner of the Property located on the premises known
as 736 Lakeview Road from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HVAC,
dated October 20, 2009 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the

City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is
in order at this time to find that
the Violation Notice was properly
issued, and that a late fee should
be levied for the review of a proper pressure test by Dominion Gas.
Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

March 10, 2010
Docket A-53-10.
RE: Appeal of MRN Development
— Rick Maron, Owner of the Property located on the premises known
as 629 Euclid Avenue from an
ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated February 25, 2010 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled for March 17,
2010.

*
*

Docket A-32-10.
RE: Appeal of Schofield Properties, LLC, Owner of the M Property
located on the premises known as
2000-2030 East 9th Street from an
ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated February 3, 2010 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled for March 17,
2010.
*

*

*

Docket A-36-10.
RE: Appeal of Graves Restaurant
LLC/MRN, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
2071 East 4th Street from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated January
28, 2010 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance by the Building Department to
allow the door to open out into a
patio area, provided that other permits be obtained as required. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-49-10.
RE: Appeal of University Circle
Inc., Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 10820
East Boulevard from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated February 22,
2010 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is
in order at this time to permit the
facility to be constructed and operated as proposed, noting the limitations or the general use of only
one occupant and the reasonable
facility for that occupant. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.

304

*

*

EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-139-08 — Jocelyn L.
Travis — 432 East 109th Street:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant three (3)
months in which to abate all violations. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Denk.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-195-08 — Tanyell Johnson — 12508 St. Clair Avenue:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant six (6)
months in which to complete the
project. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-117-09 — Isabelle Brown
— 16915 Glendale Avenue:
A motion is in order at this time
to DENY the appeal, based on the
length of time that the property has
been standing and to REMAND the
property to the Department of Building and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saab
and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

Docket A-180-09 — Timothy Capps
— 1139 East 145th Street:
A motion is in order at this time
to DENY the appeal for an “Extension of Time” and to REMAND the
property at 1139 East 145th Street to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.

The City Record

March 10, 2010
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-312-09—Bradon Partners.
A-315-09—The Phillips & Huntley
Group, LLC.
A-318-09—Jeffrey W. Powers.
A-325-09—Rhonda M. Warr.
A-329-09—James Jugl.
A-330-09—Brad L. Bell.
A-331-09—Daphne M. Davis.
A-332-09—Gilberto Mendez Jr.
A-334-09—Durham Construction.
A-337-09—Tomicka Martin.
A-338-09—Abraham David.
A-340-09—Timothy Capps.
A-341-09—Timothy Capps.
A-374-09—Michael & Kamal Elseikali.
A-21-10—Durham Properties, Ltd.
A-22-10—Durham Properties, Ltd.
A-24-10—FED/Main Street LLC.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Sullivan. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.

be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

29
nance No. 686-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010 AT
11:00 A.M. THE MOTOR VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST 49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44108.
File No. 44-2010 — Maintain and
Repair Automatic Doors, Including Labor and Installation, for
the Various Divisions of Port
Control, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Section
181.101, of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 2010 AT 10:00
A.M.
THE
DEPARTMENT
OF
PORT
CONTROL,
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 441353193.
March 10, 2010 and March 17, 2010
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2010

THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 2010
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
February 17, 2010
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Sullivan. Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

File No. 48-2010 — Maintain Catch
Basin Cleaning Trucks, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
181.101, of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 2010 AT 10:00
A.M. THE DIVISION OF WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL, RED CONFERENCE ROOM, 12302 KIRBY
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44108.
March 10, 2010 and March 17, 2010

*
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will

THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 2010
File No. 41A-2010 — Collinwood Athletic Complex Locker Room Improvements, for the Division of
Research, Planning and Development, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1176-08,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, November 10, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS ($25.00)
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
SPECIFICATIONS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANMEETING
DATORY
PRE-BID
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 2010 AT
2:00
P.M.,
THE
COLLINWOOD
ATHLETIC
COMPLEX,
1070
EAST 152ND STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44110.
File No. 42A-2010 — Gasoline, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public
Service, as authorized by Ordi-

305

File No. 43-2010 — Sonar Equipment,
for the Division of Homeland
Security, Department of Public
Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 639-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 2, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2010 AT 3:00
P.M. THE HOMELAND SECURITY, 205 ST. CLAIR AVENUE,
ROOM 306, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
File No. 45-2010 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Maintain and
Repair Heating, Ventilation and
Air Conditioning System, for the
Various Divisions of Port Control,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Section 181.101, of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 26, 2010 AT 10:00
A.M.
THE
DEPARTMENT
OF
PORT
CONTROL,
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 441353193.
March 10, 2010 and March 17, 2010
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 2010
File No. 46-2010 — Lubricants and
Supporting Services, for the Divisions of Water, Water Pollution
Control
and
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
181.101, of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 2010 AT 2:30 P.M.
THE CARL B. STOKES BUILDING, 1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

The City Record

30
File No. 47-2010 — Hauling and Disposing of Water Plant Residuals,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 901-09,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, August 5, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 2010 AT 1:30 P.M.
THE CARL B. STOKES BUILDING, 1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
March 10, 2010 and March 17, 2010

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 273-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Westbrook, Sweeney, Cleveland, Cummins, Mitchell, J. Johnson, Polensek,
Zone, Pruitt, Kelley, Brady, Cimperman, Conwell and Mayor Jackson.
An emergency resolution urging
the Obama Administration to reconsider its decision to exclude the
State of Ohio from receiving TARP
federal funding to support new programs to keep homeowners from losing their properties.
Whereas, the Federal government
has recently announced the availability of $1.5 billion in TARP funding to prevent home owners from
losing their homes to foreclosure;
and
Whereas, the State of Ohio was
excluded from the list of states
which received the special TARP
funding; and
Whereas, Ohio has been highly
impacted by the foreclosure crisis
and was one of the bell weather
states of the foreclosure crisis; and
Whereas, due to the lack of regulatory oversight at the Federal level
of government, much of Ohio’s foreclosures are linked to fraudulent
and predatory loans; and
Whereas, in the last quarter of
2009, 15.7 percent of all Ohio mortgage holders were in foreclosure or
their payments were more than a
month late; and
Whereas, in 2009 Ohio experienced
89,053 commercial and residential
foreclosures; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga County lead
the nation in 2006 with 13,600 residential foreclosures; and
Whereas,
Cuyahoga
County
is
estimated to have 14,000 residential
foreclosures in 2010; and
Whereas, vacant properties degrade and devalue the quality of
life for remaining residents, isolating and weakening the neighborhood, and increasing the likelihood
that property values will continue to
decline; further abandonment will
set in, as demonstrated by a recent
study by CWRU/NEO-CANDO indicating that in the City of Cleveland
properties lose 70% of their value
following foreclosure; and
Whereas, vacant foreclosed properties often become a breeding
ground for crime and fires, and
require a disproportionate amount of
government maintenance, for securing
properties
against
criminal
activity, removal of garbage and
rodents, including elimination of

blight through demolition, all at a
cost to taxpayers; and
Whereas, vacant properties reduce
city tax revenue in three ways: they
are often tax delinquent; their low
value means they generate little in
taxes; and they depress property
values across an entire neighborhood; and
Whereas, the citizens who live in
neighborhoods with many vacant
and
abandoned
properties
have
great difficulty obtaining homeowner’s insurance, mortgages and loans
for home improvements; and
Whereas, due to the flood of foreclosures in Cleveland and other
weak market neighborhoods in Ohio,
banks walk away from properties
by not taking back property titles
leaving the property abandoned; and
Whereas, a study commissioned
by Cuyahoga County, conducted by
Cleveland
State
University,
has
found that HUD certified counselors
funded by the county have a 52%
success rate in adverting foreclosures; and
Whereas, foreclosure mitigation
and the potential refinancing of bad
mortgages is a proven tool to reduce
the impacts of the foreclosure crisis;
and
Whereas, the Obama Administration should reconsider its funding
allocation of TARP funds assisting
home owners to prevent foreclosures; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Urging the Obama Administration to reconsider its decision to exclude the State of Ohio
from receiving TARP federal funding to support new programs to
keep homeowners from losing their
properties.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to the Honorable Barack Obama, President of
the United States, Governor Ted
Strickland, State of Ohio, U. S. Senator George Voinovich, Ohio, U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown, Ohio, U.S. Congressman Dennis Kucinich, 10th District, Ohio, U.S. Congressman Steven
LaTourette, 19th District, Ohio, U.S.
Congresswoman Marcia Fudge, 11th
District, Ohio and James Rokakis,
Cuyahoga County Treasurer.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 1, 2010.
Effective March 1, 2010.

Res. No. 274-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 1296
West 6th Street.

306

March 10, 2010
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from Mystery Productions, Inc., DBA Traffic Night
Club & Patios, 1296 West 6th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 6275945 to Struga, Inc., DBA
Sin Nite Club & Patios, 1296 West
6th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permanent Number 8651505; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Mystery Productions, Inc., DBA Traffic Night
Club & Patios, 1296 West 6th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 6275945 to Struga, Inc., DBA
Sin Nite Club & Patios, 1296 West
6th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permanent
Number
8651505;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

March 10, 2010
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 1, 2010.
Effective March 2, 2010.

Res. No. 275-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
3226 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C2 Liquor Permit at OLA 3226, Inc.,
3226 Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 7527435;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at OLA 3226, Inc.,
3226 Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 6527435,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 1, 2010.
Effective March 2, 2010.

Res. No. 276-10.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 625
East 140th Street, and repealing
Resolution No. 1101-09, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
Moe’s Stop One, Inc., 625 East 140th
Street by Resolution No. 1101-09
adopted by the Council on August 5,
2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Moe’s Stop
One, Inc., 625 East 140th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 6081178 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1101-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 1, 2010.
Effective March 2, 2010.

Res. No. 277-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 15015 Ohio Avenue
and repealing Resolution No. 1688-09,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit to 15015
Ohio Avenue by Resolution No. 168809 adopted by the Council on November 16, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

307

31
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit to Leroy Mitchell
Investments, LLC, DBA TY Grocery
& Deli, 15015 Ohio Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent Number
6061857, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 168809, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted March 1, 2010.
Effective March 2, 2010.

Ord. No. 9-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Mitchell, Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to the Shaker Square
Area Development Corporation to
encroach into the public rights-ofway above Shaker Boulevard and
Fairhill Road by installing and
maintaining 4 neighborhood entry
signs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to the Shaker Square Area
Development Corporation (“Permittee”), 11811 Shaker Boulevard, Suite
206, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, to encroach into the public rights-of-way
above Shaker Boulevard and Fairhill Road by installing and maintaining 4 neighborhood entry signs
at the locations more fully described
as follows:
LOCATIONS
S.E. corner of Martin Luther King,
Jr. Blvd. and Fairhill Road
N.E. corner of East 116th Street and
Shaker Blvd.
N.W. corner or East 130th Street and
Shaker Blvd.
S.W. corner of East 127th Street and
Fairhill Road
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
written consent of the Director of
Public Service. That nothing in this
ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right,
privilege, or permission to use, or to
attach or affix any object to, poles;
Permittee shall obtain such permission from the respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching
objects permitted by this ordinance
shall conform to plans and specifications approved by the Commis-

32
sioner of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required permits, including but not limited to Building
Permits, before installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, a prospective
Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachment(s)
permitted.
Section 5. That the Permit shall
reserve reasonable right of entry to
the encroachment location to the
City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 1, 2010.
Effective March 2, 2010.

Ord. No. 134-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing, or
otherwise improving the fuel system
at the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance; authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into
one or more public improvement contracts to construct the improvement;
and authorizing the director to
employ one or more professional
consultants necessary to design the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating,
renovating, reconstructing, or otherwise improving the fuel system at
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (the “Improvement”), for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, by one or more contracts duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the Improvement with
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a
unit basis for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of the Improvement may be

The City Record
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of the
trades or components may be the
subject of a separate contract on a
unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply and pay for permits, licenses, or
other authorizations required by any
regulatory agency or public authority to permit performance of the
work authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to design the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Service for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Service, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts and other expenditures authorized shall be paid from Fund Nos.
20 SF 381, 20 SF 391, 20 SF 503, 20
SF 509, 20 SF 517, and 20 SF 524,
Request No. RQN-4005-RL-2010-4.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 1, 2010.
Effective March 2, 2010.

Ord. No. 159-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of building
materials and used paving bricks,
for the various divisions of City government, for the period of one year,
with one option to renew exercisable by the Director of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
period of one year, with one option
to renew exercisable by the Direc-

308

March 10, 2010
tor of Finance, of the necessary
items of building materials and used
paving bricks, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the various
divisions of City government, Department of Finance. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL RQN1505-RL-2010-2)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Finance may sign all
documents with the State of Ohio or
any of its political subdivisions that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 1, 2010.
Effective March 2, 2010.

Ord. No. 160-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of materials,
parts, and supplies necessary for the
electrical maintenance of facilities,
including labor when necessary, and
for high and medium voltage testing equipment and safety equipment, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period of two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement con-

March 10, 2010
tracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a two-year term, with two one-year
options to renew, of the necessary
items of materials, parts, and supplies necessary for the electrical
maintenance of facilities, including
labor when necessary, and for high
and medium voltage testing equipment and safety equipment, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of the
City government. The first of the
one-year options to renew may not
be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted
and the first of the one-year options
to renew is exercised, then the second of the one-year options to renew
may be exercisable at the option of
the Director of Finance, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL RQN1505-RL-2010-3)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Finance may sign all
documents with the State of Ohio or
any of its political subdivisions that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 1, 2010.
Effective March 2, 2010.

Ord. No. 162-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply for
and accept a grant from the Crimi-

The City Record
nal Justice Services Agency for the
2010 Cleveland Team Approach to
Domestic Violence; and to enter into
one or more contracts with Cuyahoga County and other entities to
implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Law is authorized to apply for and
accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $115,108, and any other
funds that may become available
during the grant term, from the
Criminal Justice Service Agency, to
conduct the 2010 Cleveland Team
Approach to Domestic Violence, for
the purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that
the Director of Law is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
the grant.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 162-10-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority, including the obligation of the City of
Cleveland to provide cash matching
funds in the sum of $38,369.33, from
Fund No. 01-1001-6397, is approved in
all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with the County
of Cuyahoga and one or more contracts with other entities to implement the program as described in
the file.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance and the cash
match.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 1, 2010.
Effective March 2, 2010.

Ord. No. 278-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Run for Peace, March
21, 2010, sponsored by Our Lady of
Peace Elementary School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

309

33
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Run for Peace
sponsored by Our Lady of Peace Elementary School. on March 21,, 2010,
with the Race beginning at the corner of East 126th Street and Larchmere Avenue on East 126th St., to
Shaker Boulevard. The course will
pass Our Lady of Peace School and
St. Luke’s. At Martin Luther King
Blvd., the route will turn south onto
MLK Blvd and proceed past Benedictine High School to Mt. Auburn
Ave. (The route will turn into Benedictine High School for a water stop
and a loop on the grounds after
which the course will continue south
on MLK Blvd to Mt. Auburn Ave.)
The course will have a turn around
site at MLK Blvd. and Mt. Auburn
Ave. The return course will proceed
north on MLK Blvd to the north side
of Shaker Blvd and turn right onto
Shaker Blvd (north side) (so that
we are only closing off the west
bound portion of Shaker Blvd.,). At
East 126th St., the course turns left
onto East 126 St. for a final loop at
the Our Lady of Peace School on the
corner of East 126th St. and Buckingham Ave. Also, Tot Trot for children, ages 10 and younger; route
will be the city block of East 126th
St., Shaker Blvd., East 128th St. and
Buckingham Ave. The Tot Trot will
start at 126th St. and proceed south
on East 126th St. to Buckingham
Ave. The course will veer to the
right and proceed down Buckingham Ave. The course will turn left
on East 128th and take another
immediate left on Shaker Blvd. at
East 126th St., the route will turn
left and at Buckingham Ave., the
route will end at the finish line. ,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed March 1, 2010.
Effective March 2, 2010.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
NONE

The City Record

34

March 10, 2010

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Consent agreement for the Madison Ave. & West 61st Bridges (O 303-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280

Appropriations
Appropriations — Year 2010 (O 158-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286-288

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Albion Road, 3112, (Ward 4) — Durham Construction, owner — appeal adopted on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-334-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Anson Avenue, 5027, (Ward 5) — James Jugl, owners — appeal adopted on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-329-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arthur Avenue, 10718, (Ward 6) — Deirdre J. Laur, owner — appeal resolved on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-344-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brackland Avenue, 12716, (Ward 10) — Ebony Gill, owner — appeal resolved on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-348-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Avenue, 4301-03, (Ward 14) — Michael & Kamal Elseikali, owner — appeal adopted on
3/3/10 (Doc. A-374-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 109th Street, 1389, (Ward 9) — Jeffrey W. Powers, owners — appeal adopted on
3/3/2010 (Doc. A-318-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 109th Street, 432, (Ward 8) — Jocelyn L. Travis, owner — extension of time 3/3/10
(Doc. A-139-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 124th Street, 2795, (Ward 6) — Corrine P. Croom, owner — appeal resolved on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-342-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 125th Street, 2816, (Ward 6) — Abraham David, owner — appeal adopted on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-338-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 130th Street, 914, (Ward 10) — Shirley A. Ward, owner — appeal resolved on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-352-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 141st Street, 4100, (Ward 1) — Lonesore Chaney, owner — appeal resolved on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-353-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 145th Street, 1139, (Ward 10) — Timothy Capps, owner — extension of time 3/3/10
(Doc. A-180-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 154th Street, 3835, (Ward 1) — David G. Williams, owner — appeal resolved on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-354-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 4th Street, 2071, (Ward 3) — Graves Restaurant LLC/MRN, owner — appeal resolved on
3/3/10 (Doc. A-36-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 63rd Street, 2423, (Ward 7) — The Phillips & Huntley Group, LLC, owner — appeal
adopted on 3/3/10 (Doc. A-315-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 70th Street, 1538, (Ward 7) — The Loan Place, owner — appeal resolved on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-347-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th Street, 2798, (Ward 6) — Brad Bell, owners — appeal adopted on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-330-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th Street, 995, (Ward 8) — Timothy Capps, owner — appeal adopted on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-341-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th Street, 2000-2030, (Ward 3) — Schofield Properties, LLC, owner — no action on
3/3/10 (Doc. A-32-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East Boulevard, 10820, (Ward 8) — University Circle Inc., owner — appeal resolved
on 3/3/10 (Doc. A-49-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 629, (Ward 3) — MRN Development—Rick Maron, owner — no action on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-53-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairport Avenue, 11706, (Ward 9) — Jon D. Patterson, owner — appeal resolved on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-350-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fowler Avenue, 5181, (Ward 5) — Tomicka Martin, owner — appeal adopted on
3/3/10 (Doc. A-337-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Avenue, 5209, (Ward 15) — West Bethel Baptist Church, owner — appeal postponed
to 03/17/10 on 3/3/10 (Doc. A-346-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Avenue, 5702, (Ward 15) — Daphne M. Davis, owners — appeal adopted on 3/39/10
(Doc. A-331-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 7708, (Ward 3) — Gilberto Mendez, Jr., owners — appeal adopted
on 3/3/10 (Doc. A-332-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glendale Avenue, 16915, (Ward 1) — Isabella Brown, owner — extension of time 3/3/10
(Doc. A-117-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

310

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304

March 10, 2010

The City Record

35

Independence Road, 2900, (Ward 3) — Deirdre J. Laur, owner — appeal resolved on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-343-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
Independence Road, 2900, (Ward 5) — Philip E. Pavarini, owner — no action on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-349-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
Lakeview Road, 736, (Ward 9) — Tree of Knowledge Learning Center Inc. c/o Jackson Comfort
Systems, owner — appeal resolved on 3/3/10 (Doc. A-30-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
Monroe Avenue, 3301, (Ward 3) — Brandon Partners, owner — appeal adopted on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-312-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
Rowley Avenue, 1901, (Ward 14) — Gren Apple Properties, LLC, owner — appeal postponed to
03/17/10 on 3/3/10 (Doc. A-345-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
St. Clair Avenue, 12508, (Ward 10) — Tanyell Johnson, owner — extesnion of time 3/3/10
(Doc. A-195-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
St. Clair Avenue, 14627, (Ward 10) — Timothy Capps, owner — appeal adopted on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-340-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
Star Avenue, 7708, (Ward 7) — Debra Wilson, owner — appeal withdrawn on
3/3/2010 (Doc. A-317-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th Streeet, 1111, (Ward 3) — FED/Main Street LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-24-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
West 11th Streeet, 2449, (Ward 3) — Durham Properties, Ltd., owner — appeal adopted on
3/3/10 (Doc. A-22-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
West 11th Streeet, 2451, (Ward 3) — Durham Properties, Ltd., owner — appeal adopted on
3/3/10 (Doc. A-21-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
West 25th Street, 1616, (Ward 3) — Maria Keckan, owner — appeal withdrawn on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-408-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
West 81st Street, 2009, (Ward 15) — John Peicu, owner — appeal resolved on 3/3/10
(Doc. A-18-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
Woodland Avenue, 3800, (Ward 5) — International Specialty Produce, Inc., owner —
no action on 3/3/10 (Doc. A-446-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
Woodside Avenue, 12704, (Ward 10) — Rhonda M. Warr, owner 3/3/10 (Doc. A-325-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305

Board of Control — Architecture Division
Architects for Service Building rehabilitation — per Ord. 1724-09 to HWH Architects,
Engineers, Planners, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 83-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Civil Service Commission
Firefighter civil service tests — per Ord. 678-09 to EB Jacobs, LLC (BOC Res. 88-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

Board of Control — Cleveland Municipal Court
Automated Call Center software, hardware and installation — Call Center
Consulting Inc. — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 80-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Avon Avenue, 11821 (Ward 2) — PPN 138-01-117 — HUD/Fannie Mae property —
Two Brothers Rehab and Renovation LLC (BOC Res. 92-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 53rd Street, 3792 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-10-060 — HUD/Fannie Mae property —
Slavic Village Development Corporation (BOC Res. 91-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lansing Avenue, 7012 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-20-102 — HUD/Fannie Mae property —
Slavic Village Development Corporation (BOC Res. 90-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mead Avenue, 4976 (Ward 5) — PPN 123-22-007 — HUD/Fannie Mae property —
Affordable Demolition and Hauling (BOC Res. 93-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301

Board of Control — Convention Center and Stadium Division
West Side Market cleaning — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 87-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Engineering consultants for Cedar Avenue reconstruction — per Ord. 1273-09 to
DLZ Ohio, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 84-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Finance Department
Aurora Road, 24101 — PPN 791-11-009 — purchase for Aurora Rd. water main project per
Ord. 158-09 (BOC Res. 81-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298
Automated Call Center software, hardware and installation — Call Center
Consulting Inc. — Cleveland Municipal Court (BOC Res. 80-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

311

The City Record

36

Fairville Avenue, 18900 — PPN 026-26-052 — convey
Corporation per Ord. 275-09 (BOC Res. 89-10) . .
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in
(BOC Res. 79-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

March 10, 2010

to Kamm’s Corners Development
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
February 2010 — per BOC Res. 921-52
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Control — Land Acquisition
Aurora Road, 24101 — PPN 791-11-009 — purchase for Aurora Rd. water main project per
Ord. 158-09 (BOC Res. 81-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Avon Avenue, 11821 (Ward 2) — PPN 138-01-117 — HUD/Fannie Mae property —
Two Brothers Rehab and Renovation LLC (BOC Res. 92-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 53rd Street, 3792 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-10-060 — HUD/Fannie Mae property —
Slavic Village Development Corporation (BOC Res. 91-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lansing Avenue, 7012 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-20-102 — HUD/Fannie Mae property —
Slavic Village Development Corporation (BOC Res. 90-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mead Avenue, 4976 (Ward 5) — PPN 123-22-007 — HUD/Fannie Mae property —
Affordable Demolition and Hauling (BOC Res. 93-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301

Board of Control — Land Sales
Fairville Avenue, 18900 — PPN 026-26-052 — convey to Kamm’s Corners Development
Corporation per Ord. 275-09 (BOC Res. 89-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Barber-Greene road paver parts and Caterpillar equipment parts —
per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Ohio Machinery, d.b.a. Ohio CAT —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 86-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Cab and chassis with box van bodies — per Ord. 902-07 to Valley Ford Truck —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 85-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Collinwood Recreation Center — per Ord. 451-08, 597-09 to Panzica
Construction Company — Division of Research, Planning and
Development (BOC Res. 94-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
West Side Market cleaning — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — all bids rejected —
Division of Convention Center and Stadium (BOC Res. 87-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Architects for Service Building rehabilitation — per Ord. 1724-09 to HWH Architects,
Engineers, Planners, Inc. — Division of Architecture, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 83-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engineering consultants for Cedar Avenue reconstruction — per Ord. 1273-09 to
DLZ Ohio, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction, Dept. of
Public Service (BOC Res. 84-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Firefighter civil service tests — per Ord. 678-09 to EB Jacobs, LLC — Civil Service
Commission (BOC Res. 88-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan Program —
amend BOC Res. 241-09 — Divisions of Water and Water Pollution Control, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 82-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Collinwood Recreation Center — per Ord. 451-08, 597-09 to Panzica
Construction Company — Division of Research, Planning and
Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 94-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Architects for Service Building rehabilitation — per Ord. 1724-09 to HWH Architects,
Engineers, Planners, Inc. — Division of Architecture (BOC Res. 83-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Barber-Greene road paver parts and Caterpillar equipment parts — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to
Ohio Machinery, d.b.a. Ohio CAT — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 86-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cab and chassis with box van bodies — per Ord. 902-07 to Valley Ford Truck —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 85-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engineering consultants for Cedar Avenue reconstruction — per Ord. 1273-09 to
DLZ Ohio, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 84-10) . . . . . . .

312

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

March 10, 2010

The City Record

37

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan Program —
amend BOC Res. 241-09 — Divisions of Water and Water Pollution Control
(BOC Res. 82-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Aurora Road, 24101 — PPN 791-11-009 — purchase for Aurora Rd. water main project per
Ord. 158-09 (BOC Res. 81-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298
Fairville Avenue, 18900 — PPN 026-26-052 — convey to Kamm’s Corners Development
Corporation per Ord. 275-09 (BOC Res. 89-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in February 2010 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 79-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Barber-Greene road paver parts and Caterpillar equipment parts — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to
Ohio Machinery, d.b.a. Ohio CAT — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of
Public Service (BOC Res. 86-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Cab and chassis with box van bodies — per Ord. 902-07 to Valley Ford Truck — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 85-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Control — Research, Planning and Development Division
Collinwood Recreation Center — per Ord. 451-08, 597-09 to Panzica Construction Company —
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 94-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Automated Call Center software, hardware and installation — Call Center
Consulting Inc. — Cleveland Municipal Court, Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 80-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Control — Water Division
Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection
Plan Program — amend BOC Res. 241-09 — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 82-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection
Plan Program — amend BOC Res. 241-09 — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 82-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Board of Control — West Side Market
Cleaning — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — all bids rejected — Division of Convention
Center and Stadium, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 87-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Flamingo Avenue, 18605, (Ward 19/21) — Mack Cameron, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 3/8/10 (Cal. 09-266) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Avenue, 7310, (Ward 12) — Mukesh Agarwal, owner — appeal postponed to 5/17/10 on
3/8/10 (Cal. 09-233). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 5608, (Ward 7) — LTF 55 Properties Ltd., owner and Tomco Metal Fabricating,
lessee — appeal postponed to 4/19/10 on 3/8/10 (Cal. 10-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 5614, (Ward 7) — LTF 55 Properties Ltd., owner and Tomco Metal Fabricating,
lessee — appeal postponed to 4/19/10 on 3/8/10 (Cal. 10-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 5616, (Ward 7) — LTF 55 Properties Ltd., owner and Tomco Metal Fabricating,
lessee — appeal postponed to 4/19/10 on 3/8/10 (Cal. 10-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leonard Avenue, 1678, (Ward 13) — Mike Hirko, owner, and Chuck Rogers, tenant — appeal
heard on 3/8/10 (Cal. 09-244) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 13813, (Ward 18) — Joseph Coreno, owner, and Richard Eucker, tenant
d.b.a., The Closing Room — appeal granted and adopted on 3/8/10 (Cal. 10-15) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Avenue, 6021, (Ward 13) — James Souris, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 3/8/10 (Cal. 09-255) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ridge Road, 3837, (Ward 15) — WHS Realty Services,Inc., owner and Salim Hasrouni, tenant —
appeal heard on 3/8/10 (Cal. 10-5). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

313

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302

The City Record

38

March 10, 2010

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 119th Street, 1969, (Ward 9) — Little Italy Development, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 3/22/2010 (Cal. 10-26) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
East 93rd Street, 3162, (Ward 6) — Orealous Caldwell, owner — appeal to be heard on
3/22/2010 (Cal. 10-27) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302

Bridges
Consent agreement for the Madison Ave. & West 61st Bridges (O 303-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280
Amend Sect. 7 of Ord. No. 657-09 — West 74th St. Bridge rehabilitation project (O 304-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280

Budget
Appropriations — Year 2010 (O 158-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286-288

City of Cleveland Bids
Collinwood Athletic Complex locker room improvements — Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties — Division of Research, Planning and Development — per Ord. 1176-08 —
bid due April 1, 2010 (advertised 3/10/2010 and 3/17/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Doors, automatic, maintain and repair — Department of Port Control — per C.O. Sec.
181.101 — bid due April 1, 2010 (advertised 3/10/2010 and 3/17/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance —
per Ord. 686-07 — bid due April 1, 2010 (advertised 3/10/2010 and 3/17/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system maintenance and repair —
Department of Port Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due April 7, 2010
(advertised 3/10/2010 and 3/17/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lubricants and supporting services — Department of Public Utilities — per C.O. Sec.
181.101 — bid due April 8, 2010 (advertised 3/10/2010 and 3/17/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sonar equipment — Department of Public Safety — per Ord. 639-08 — bid due April 7, 2010
(advertised 3/10/2010 and 3/17/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, catch basin cleaning — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water
Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due March 25, 2010
(advertised 3/10/2010 and 3/17/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water plant residuals, hauling and disposal of — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per Ord. 901-09 — bid due April 8, 2010
(advertised 3/10/2010 and 3/17/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306

City Planning Commission
Relating to restrictions on the keeping of farm animals and bees — amend Section 347.02
(O 29-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Contract — Economic Development — Global Cardiovascular Innovation Center (O 165-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sect(s)135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180, 603.02, 603A.04 and 604.99 — Division of
Dog Pound (name change)to Division of Animal Control Services (O 305-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 281
Relating to restrictions on the keeping of farm animals and bees — amend Section 347.02
(O 29-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Communications
New Circle Vistas — residential rental development — 11607 Euclid Ave. Ward 09)
(F 315-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279

Community Development
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 552-09 — appropriate CDBG ARRA & NEF funds —
administrative expenses (O 132-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CMHA — PPN 125-18-007 / 017 / 025 / 031 / 035 , 125-19-031 — Land Reutilization Program
(Ward 05) (O 309-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 119th St. & Miles Ave. — PPN 138-13-008 / 009 / 080 — Land Reutilization Program —
Union Miles Development Corp. (Ward 02) (O 271-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 124th St., 4300 — PPN 138-15-064 — Land Reutilization Program — Doris Jones, George
Lentvor, Jake Williams, Edwina Cook, Gurlena Al-Khabir, Raymond Owens-Johnson,
Sharon Deloach, Lawrence Williams (Ward 02) (O 1598-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

314

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 284
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

The City Record

March 10, 2010

39

Kelton Ave., 11717 — PPN 120-10-127 — Land Reutilization Program — James Williams
(Ward 09) (O 1726-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Rd., 4345 — PPN 143-05-013 — Land Reutilization Program — Union Miles Development Corp.
(Ward 01) (O 270-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John’s West Family Homes, L.P. — various sites — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 05)
(O 269-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thornhill Rd. and Eddy Rd. — PPN 110-11-004 / 040 — Land Reutilization Program — Greater
Friendship Baptist Church (Ward 09) (O 1553-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Community Development Block Grant Program
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 552-09 — appropriate CDBG ARRA & NEF funds —
administrative expenses — Community Development Department
(O 132-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Condolence Resolutions
Britt, Jimmie (R 319-10). . . . . . . .
Drayton, Otis Paul (R 321-10) . . .
Farmer, Velma R. (R 320-10) . . .
O’Leary, William (R 322-10) . . . .
Solomon, Jr., Louis D. (R 318-10)

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

279
279
279
279
279

Congratulations Resolutions
Adams, Leah (R 323-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
Custard, Lovell John (R 324-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279

Contracts
Amend Sect(s)1 & 4 of Ord. No. 808-09 — Gateway Garages(O 306-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 552-09 — appropriate CDBG ARRA & NEF funds —
administrative expenses — Community Development Department (O 132-10) . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 915-09 — Miles Shopping Plaza LLC (O 307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 7 of Ord. No. 657-09 — West 74th St. Bridge rehabilitation project
(O 304-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend title & Sect. 5 of Ord. No. 852-09 — Lake-to-Lakes Bike Trail Project
(O 310-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Clinic Foundation — Economic Development — Global Cardiovascular
Innovation Center (O 165-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract with 25th Street Partnership LLC (O 166-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dodson & Associates — Contract No. 68718 — Cory Recreation Center Flooring &
Dewatering Project (Statement of Final Acceptance) (Ward 08) (F 316-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electrical maintenance & materials — various divisions of City government
(O 160-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 67820 — RW Armstrong Inc. — general
engineering design services (O 302-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision
and life insurance coverage — City employees — professional services
(O 308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Messina Floor Covering — Contract No. 69616 — Fusion Center Carpeting (Justice Center) —
Statement of Final Acceptance (Ward 03) (F 317-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Requirement contracts of building materials (used paving bricks)- various divisions of
City government (O 159-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Dept. — public improvement — professional services — Harvard Yards fuel
tanks (O 134-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308

Cuyahoga County
Cleveland Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2010 — Grant — Criminal Justice
Services Agency — Law Department (O 162-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309

Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority
PPN 125-18-007 / 017 / 025 / 031 / 035 , 125-19-031 — Land Reutilization Program
(Ward 05) (O 309-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 284

Dog Pound Division
Amend Sect(s)135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180, 603.02, 603A.04 and 604.99 — Division of
Dog Pound (name change)to Division of Animal Control Services(O 305-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 281

315

The City Record

40

March 10, 2010

Economic Development Department
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 915-09 — contract with Miles Shopping Plaza LLC(O 307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282
Cleveland Clinic Foundation — contract — Global Cardiovascular Innovation Center
(O 165-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Contract with 25th Street Partnership LLC (O 166-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Environmental Justice Small Grant Program — Grant — U.S. EPA (O 164-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Encroachments
Shaker Square Area Development Corporation — right-of-way — Shaker Blvd. &
Fairhill Rd. — installing & maintaining 4 neighborhood entry signs (O 9-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307

Environmental Protection Agency
Environmental Justice Small Grant Program — Grant (O 164-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Finance Department
Requirement contracts of building materials (used paving bricks)- various divisions of
City government (O 159-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308
Contracts for electrical maintenance & materials — various divisions of City government
(O 160-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308
Approve petitions for Special Improvement District — (Downtown Cleveland) (R 272-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Appropriations — Year 2010 (O 158-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286-288
Project Clean Program — temporary and seasonal personnel — temporary employment agencies
(O 205-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Grants
Cleveland Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2010 — Criminal Justice Services Agency —
Law Department (O 162-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309
Environmental Justice Small Grant Program — U.S. EPA (O 164-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Health Department
Relating to restrictions on the keeping of farm animals and bees — amend Section 347.02
(O 29-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Insurance
Group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision and
life insurance coverage — City employees — professional services
(O 308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283

Justice Center
Messina Floor Covering — Contract No. 69616 — Fusion Center Carpeting (Justice Center) —
Statement of Final Acceptance (Ward 03) (F 317-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279

Land Reutilization Program
CMHA — PPN 125-18-007 / 017 / 025 / 031 / 035, 125-19-031 (Ward 05) (O 309-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 284
East 119th St. & Miles Ave. — PPN 138-13-008 / 009 / 080 — Union Miles Development Corp.
(Ward 02) (O 271-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
East 124th St., 4300 — PPN 138-15-064 — Doris Jones, George Lentvor, Jake Williams, Edwina
Cook, Gurlena Al-Khabir, Raymond Owens-Johnson, Sharon Deloach, Lawrence Williams
(Ward 02) (O 1598-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
Kelton Ave., 11717 — PPN 120-10-127 — James Williams (Ward 09) (O 1726-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
Lee Rd., 4345 — PPN 143-05-013 — Union Miles Development Corp. (Ward 01) (O 270-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
St. John’s West Family Homes, L.P. — various sites — (Ward 05) (O 269-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Thornhill Rd. and Eddy Rd. — PPN 110-11-004 / 040 — Greater Friendship Baptist Church
(Ward 09) (O 1553-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Law Department
Cleveland Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2010 — Grant — Criminal Justice Services
Agency (O 162-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309

316

March 10, 2010

The City Record

41

Liquor Permits
Clark Ave., 3226 — objection to issuance (Ward 14) (R 275-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
East 140th St., 625 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1101-09 (Ward 10)
(R 276-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., 3750 — objection to transfer of ownership — (Ward 02)
(R 314-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
Ohio Ave., 15015 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1688-09 — (Ward 01)
(R 277-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
West 6th St., 1296 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 274-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
West 6th St., 1296 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 935-09 — (Ward 03)
(R 313-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 552-09 — appropriate CDBG ARRA & NEF funds —
administrative expenses — Community Development Department (O 132-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Amend Sect(s)1 & 4 of Ord. No. 808-09 — Gateway Garages(O 306-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282
Project Clean Program — temporary and seasonal personnel — temporary employment agencies
(O 205-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Permits
Run for Peace — March 21st — Our Lady of Peace Elementary School — Service Dept.
(Ward 06) (O 278-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309

Personnel Department
Group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision
and life insurance coverage — City employees — professional services
(O 308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283

Port Control Department
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 67820 — RW Armstrong Inc. — general
engineering design services (O 302-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279

Professional Services
Amend Sect. 7 of Ord. No. 657-09 — West 74th St. Bridge rehabilitation project
(O 304-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280
Group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision
and life insurance coverage — City employees (O 308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283
Project Clean Program — temporary and seasonal personnel — temporary employment agencies
(O 205-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Service Dept. — public improvement contract — Harvard Yards fuel tanks
(O 134-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308

Public Improvements
Amend Sect(s)1 & 4 of Ord. No. 808-09 — Gateway Garages(O 306-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282
Service Dept. — contract — professional services — Harvard Yards fuel tanks
(O 134-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308
Amend title & Sect. 5 of Ord. No. 852-09 — Lake-to-Lakes Bike Trail Project
(O 310-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283

Recreation Centers
Dodson & Associates — Contract No. 68718 — Cory Recreation Center Flooring &
Dewatering Project (Statement of Final Acceptance) (Ward 08) (F 316-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279

Resolution of Support
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
Health and Human Service renewal levy — May 4th, 2010 (R 312-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

317

The City Record

42

March 10, 2010

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Health and Human Service renewal levy — May 4th, 2010 (R 312-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Safety Department
Amend Sect(s)135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180, 603.02, 603A.04 and 604.99 — Division of
Dog Pound (name change)to Division of Animal Control Services(O 305-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 281

Service Department
Amend Sect. 7 of Ord. No. 657-09 — West 74th St. Bridge rehabilitation project
(O 304-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280
Amend title & Sect. 5 of Ord. No. 852-09 — Lake-to-Lakes Bike Trail Project
(O 310-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283
Consent agreement for the Madison Ave. & West 61st Bridges (O 303-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280
Dodson & Associates — Contract No. 68718 — Cory Recreation Center Flooring &
Dewatering Project (Statement of Final Acceptance) (Ward 08) (F 316-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
Messina Floor Covering — Contract No. 69616 — Fusion Center Carpeting (Justice Center) —
Statement of Final Acceptance (Ward 03) (F 317-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
Public improvement contract — professional services — Harvard Yards fuel tanks
(O 134-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308
Run for Peace — permit — March 21st — Our Lady of Peace Elementary School (Ward 06)
(O 278-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309
Shaker Square Area Development Corporation — encroachment into right-of-way —
Shaker Blvd. & Fairhill Rd. — installing & maintaining 4 neighborhood entry signs
(O 9-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307

Shaker Square Development Corporation
Encroachment into right-of-way — Shaker Blvd. & Fairhill Rd. — installing & maintaining
4 neighborhood entry signs (O 9-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307

Statement of Work Acceptance
Dodson & Associates — Contract No. 68718 — Cory Recreation Center Flooring & Dewatering
Project (Statement of Final Acceptance) (Ward 08) (F 316-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
Messina Floor Covering — Contract No. 69616 — Fusion Center Carpeting (Justice Center) —
Statement of Final Acceptance (Ward 03) (F 317-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279

Union — Miles Development Corporation
Lee Rd., 4345 — PPN 143-05-013 — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 01) (O 270-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
East 119th St. & Miles Ave. — PPN 138-13-008 / 009 / 080 — Land Reutilization Program
(Ward 02) (O 271-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288

Ward 01
Lee Rd., 4345 — PPN 143-05-013 — Land Reutilization Program — Union Miles Development Corp.
(O 270-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Ohio Ave., 15015 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1688-09 — liquor permit
(R 277-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 02
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 915-09 — contract with Miles Shopping Plaza LLC(O 307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282
Custard, Lovell John — congratulations (R 324-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
East 119th St. & Miles Ave. — PPN 138-13-008 / 009 / 080 — Land Reutilization Program —
Union Miles Development Corp. (O 271-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
East 124th St., 4300 — PPN 138-15-064 — Land Reutilization Program — Doris Jones, George
Lentvor, Jake Williams, Edwina Cook, Gurlena Al-Khabir, Raymond Owens-Johnson,
Sharon Deloach, Lawrence Williams (O 1598-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., 3750 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit
(R 314-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solomon, Jr., Louis D. — condolence (R 318-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

318

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

March 10, 2010

The City Record

43

Ward 03
Approve petitions for Special Improvement District — (Downtown Cleveland) (R 272-10) . . . .
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Messina Floor Covering — Contract No. 69616 — Fusion Center Carpeting (Justice Center) —
Statement of Final Acceptance (F 317-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1296 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 274-10) . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1296 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 935-09 — liquor permit
(R 313-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 04
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
Drayton, Otis Paul — condolence (R 321-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279

Ward 05
CMHA — PPN 125-18-007 / 017 / 025 / 031 / 035 , 125-19-031 — Land Reutilization Program
(O 309-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John’s West Family Homes, L.P. — various sites — Land Reutilization Program
(O 269-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 284
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 06
Britt, Jimmie — condolence (R 319-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Run for Peace — permit — March 21st — Our Lady of Peace Elementary School
Service Dept. (O 278-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .

...
...
—
...
...

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 07
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 08
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dodson & Associates — Contract No. 68718 — Cory Recreation Center Flooring & Dewatering
Project (Statement of Final Acceptance) (F 316-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Farmer, Velma R. — condolence (R 320-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279

Ward 09
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kelton Ave., 11717 — PPN 120-10-127 — Land Reutilization Program — James Williams
(O 1726-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New Circle Vistas — residential rental development — 11607 Euclid Ave. (F 315-10). . . .
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thornhill Rd. and Eddy Rd. — PPN 110-11-004 / 040 — Land Reutilization Program —
Greater Friendship Baptist Church (O 1553-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

Ward 10
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
East 140th St., 625 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1101-09 — liquor permit
(R 276-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 11
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 12
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

319

The City Record

44

March 10, 2010

Ward 13
Contract with 25th Street Partnership LLC (O 166-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 14
Adams, Leah — congratulations (R 323-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 3226 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 275-10) .
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

279
307
306
285

Ward 15
Consent agreement for the Madison Ave. & West 61st Bridges (O 303-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 16
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 17
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 18
Foreclosure Inovation Grant Resolution (R 273-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Ward 19
O’Leary, William — condolence (R 322-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
Support of State Issue 1 (Ohio Third Frontier program) (R 311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Zoning
Relating to restrictions on the keeping of farm animals and bees — amend Section 347.02
(O 29-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

320

