The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

May the Nineteenth, Two Thousand and Ten

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name
Terrell H. Pruitt
Zachary Reed
Joe Cimperman
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Jeffrey D. Johnson
Kevin Conwell
Eugene R. Miller
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Kevin J. Kelley
Brian J. Cummins
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
16
17
20
20
22
24
24
25
26
46
47

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman..............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell .................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow ..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell...................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley ..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone......................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Pam Benjamin, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – _________, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole D.West, Interim Director, Room
121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – John D. Mahone, Interim Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia
Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F. Denk,
Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P.
O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela Caldwell,
Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council Member
____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia
Nolan, David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair; Laura
M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey, Allan
Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12B
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
12A
Judge Michelle D. Earley
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
12C
Judge Michael John Ryan
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 19, 2010

Vol. 97

No. 5032

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MAY 17, 2010
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Cimperman,
Services
Committee:
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service ComMiller,
Chair;
Cummins,
mittee:
Vice Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K.
Johnson, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt,
Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson,
K.
Johnson,
Kelley,
Mitchell.

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Cleveland,
Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell,
Zone.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Zone, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Reed.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 678-10.
May 17, 2010
Sandra Franklin
First Assistant Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Ms. Franklin:
You are requested by Cleveland
City Council, without objection, to
serve as Clerk of Council Pro Tempore for the purposes of the May 17,
2010 Council meeting, due to the
absence of Patricia J. Britt, Clerk of
Council.
Your assistance is appreciated.
Sincerely,
Martin J. Sweeney
Council President

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, May 17, 2010
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson,
Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Darnell Brown,
Chief Operating Officer; Valarie J.
McCall, Chief of Government Affairs;
Chris Warren, Chief of Regional Development; Maureen Harper, Chief
of Communications; Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary; Andrew Watterson, Chief of Sustainability; Natoya
J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public
Affairs; and Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Rybka, Nichols, Fumich, Griffin, Brown, Interim Directors Nycole
D. West and John D. Mahone, and
Teresa Stevenson, Legislative Affairs.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76
prayer was offered by Rev. Doug
Horner
of
St.
Paul
Community
Church, 4427 Franklin Boulevard,
located in Ward 15 and Rev. Jose
Reyes of Iglesia Nueva Vida, 2327
Holmden Avenue, located in Ward
15. Pledge of Allegiance.

683

Received.
File No. 679-10.
From Council Member Joe Cimperman, Ward 3 — Memo recusing himself from voting on Ordinance No. 46610. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 680-10.
Re #624727 — C1 New Application
— Murray Hill Market, LC, d.b.a. Murray Hill Market, 2072 Murray Hill
Road. (Ward 9). Received.
File No. 681-10.
Re #64224284 — C1, C2 Transfer of
Ownership Application — Nima Beverage, Inc., d.b.a. Ramada Deli, 1st Fl.,
980-06-08 Almira Avenue. (Ward 16).
Received.
File No. 682-10.
Re #27590401 — D5, D6 Stock Transfer Application 5421 Fleet Avenue, LC,
3314 Warren Road. (Ward 19). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 683-10 — Melvin James
White.

The City Record

4
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 684-10—Case School/Windows Public Art Project.
Res. No. 685-10 — St. Stephen
Roman Catholic Church.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 686-10 — National Emergency Medical Services Week 2010.
Res. No. 687-10 — Maribor Rotary
Club.
Res. No. 688-10—The Huber-Westfall Garden.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 689-10—Rose Collins.
Res. No. 690-10—Bettie Ford.
Res. No. 691-10—Karl J. Ertle II.
COMMEMORATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 692-10—Alice Marie Dawson.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 649-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with
Campus EAI for professional services necessary to host and support
the City’s web site, for a period of
two
years,
with
three
one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Campus
EAI for professional services necessary to host and support the
City’s web site, for a period two
years, with three one-year options
to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance, in the total sum of
$98,000,
for
the
Department
of
Finance. The contracts or contracts
shall be paid from Fund No. 011511-6320, Request No. RQS 1511 RL
2010-104.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 650-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with
OneCommunity, or in the alternative, to enter into one or more
amendments to Contract No. 63158
with OneCommunity both to provide
professional services necessary to
supply the City of Cleveland buildings with high-speed digital data
access to the Internet, for a period
up to two years, with three one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Finance; and to enter
into a non-exclusive subscriber services agreement with OneCommunity.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with OneCommunity for professional services necessary to supply the City of Cleveland buildings with high-speed digital data access to the Internet, for
a period up to two years, with three
one-year options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That, in the alternative,
the Director of Finance is authorized to enter into one or more
amendments to Contract No. 63158
with OneCommunity to provide continuing services necessary to supply
the City of Cleveland buildings with
high-speed digital data access to the
Internet, for a period up to two
years, with three one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Finance.
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
a non-exclusive subscriber services
agreement with OneCommunity.
Section 4. That the contracts or
contract amendments shall be paid
from Fund No. 01-6320-1511, RQS 1511
RL 2010-105.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 651-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 5 of Ordinance No. 480-09,
passed June 1, 2009, relating to
applying for and accepting grants
and gifts from public and private
entities for the Municipal Solid
Waste-to-Energy plant at the Ridge
Road Transfer Station and autho-

684

May 19, 2010
rizing one or more contracts with
Princeton Environmental Group, Inc.
and other professional consultants
to implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 5 of Ordinance No. 480-09, passed June 1, 2009,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 5. That the costs of any
expenditures
authorized
by
this
ordinance shall be paid from Fund
No. 58 SF 001, from any other funds
deemed appropriate by the Director
of Finance, and from the fund or
funds to which are credited any
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance. Request No. 184143.
Section 2. That existing Section 5
of Ordinance No. 480-09, passed June
1, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 652-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the Board of Cuyahoga County Commissioners for the replacement of
Cedar Road bridge No. 229 over
Doan Brook; authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into
any relative agreements; and to
apply for and accept an allocation
of County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Funds for the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is
given to the Board of County Commissioners (the “County”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the County:
replacement of the Cedar Road
Bridge No. 229 over Doan Brook (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes
to cooperate with the County in the
cost of the Improvement to the
extent of funds received by an allocation from the County Motor Vehicle $5.00 License Tax Fund; and by
applying to the Board of County
Commissioners to use the License
Tax Fund for the Improvement.
However, the City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of
any items included in the construction contract at the request of the
City, which are determined by the

May 19, 2010
County not eligible or made necessary by the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
the County necessary to complete
the planning and construction of the
Improvement, which agreements shall
contain terms and conditions that
the Director of Law determines shall
best protect the public interest.
Section 4. That on completion of
the Improvement, the City will:
(a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
(b) Maintain the Improvement
according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance;
(c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside stands, or other private installations within the limits of the
right-of-way;
(d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices under the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices under the provisions of Section
4511.11 and related sections of the
Revised Code;
(e) Follow and maintain post-construction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed
with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency; and
(f) Prohibit all parking within the
limits of the roadway which is a
part of the Improvement under Section 4511.66 of the Revised Code,
unless otherwise controlled by City
ordinance or resolution.
Section 5. (a) That all existing
streets
and
public
rights-of-way
within the City that are necessary
for the Improvement shall be made
available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for
the Improvement the County will
arrange for its acquisition.
(c) That the County shall continue to maintain the structural elements of any bridge (defined as a
structure with a span of twenty (20)
feet or greater) within the limits of
the Improvement under applicable
sections of the Revised Code.
(d) That the street within the limits of the Improvement is designated a through highway within the
meaning of division (F) of Section
4511.07 of the Revised Code.
(e) That arrangements have been
or will be made with and agreements obtained from all utility companies whose lines or structures will
be affected by the Improvement.
That the companies have agreed to
make
any
and
all
necessary
rearrangements in such manner as
to be clear of any construction
called for by the plans for the
Improvement. That the companies
have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City.
(f) That the City, at its own
expense, shall make all rearrangements of water mains, service lines,
fire hydrants, valve boxes, sanitary
sewers, or other City-owned utilities
and appurtenances which do not

The City Record
comply with the provisions of ODOT
Directive No. 28-A, whether inside or
outside the corporate limits of the
City, as may be necessary to conform to the Improvement.
(g) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of
governmentally-owned utility facilities which come within the provisions of ODOT Directive No. 28-A to
the same extent that it participates
in the other costs of the Improvement, provided that such participation will not extend to additions or
betterments of existing facilities.
(h) That the construction, reconstruction, and rearrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the Improvement, and all backfilling of trenches
made necessary by utility rearrangement shall be performed under the
provisions of the ODOT Construction
and Material Specifications.
(i) If applicable, that stop signs
affecting the movement of traffic on
any street within the limits of the
Improvement shall be removed and
no stop signs will be erected except
at
intersections
with
another
through highway where traffic does
not warrant the installation of a
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-Way Stop” as
provided in the aforesaid manual
are met.
(j) That no rule or regulation may
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or regulation
so restricting road usage is rescinded.
Section 6. That this Council requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the County
concerning the financing of the
Improvement,
which
agreement
shall
contain
without
limitation
terms substantially similar to the
following:
(a) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications for the
Improvement, including necessary
engineering reports, under current
County standards for construction of
County roads and bridges.
(b) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction contract.
(c) That if, by ordinance of this
Council, the City requests the County, to include in the Improvement
the construction of sanitary sewers,
water lines, sewers for drainage of
the area surrounding the Improvement,
sidewalks,
alternate
bid
items or other items that are in
addition to those now existing in
the plans for the Improvement and
not provided for elsewhere in the
agreement, the County will do so,
provided that the construction of
the additional items are approved
by the County and the City, and
provided
further
that
the
City
agrees to pay or cause to be paid
the cost of the additional construction, the cost of preliminary and
design engineering, and construction supervision.

685

5
(d) That the City agrees to participate with the County in the cost
of the Improvement by an allocation
from the County Motor Vehicle
License Tax Fund to pay the County portion of the Improvement.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to apply to
the County for an allocation from the
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
Fund to pay the County portion of
the Improvement, and to enter into
one or more agreements with the
County as are necessary to finance
the Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply to the County for approval to
use County Motor Vehicle License
Tax funds to pay for the Improvement, to accept the funds and to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 10. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
transmit to the County three (3) certified copies of this ordinance immediately on its taking effect, and it
shall become the basis for proceeding with the Improvement.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 653-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to amend the
lease agreement between the City of
Cleveland and Nehst Creations, LLC
to extend the lease term up to an
additional year and to make other
changes to allow access to certain
portions of the Convention Center
and Convention Center Garage, for
film production purposes.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1617-08, passed November 17, 2008,
this Council authorized the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
to enter into a lease agreement with
Nehst Creations, LLC to use and
occupy space located in the Cleveland Convention Center, portions of
Exhibit Halls A, B, C, and D, and
up to 36 parking spaces in the Convention Center Garage for motion
picture production purposes; and
Whereas, the lease agreement provided that the lease may be extended until such time as the General
Assembly adopts legislation establishing motion picture tax credits;
and
Whereas, the General Assembly
adopted motion picture tax credit
legislation; and
Whereas, both the City of Cleveland and Nehst Creations, LLC desire to amend the lease agreement

6
to extend the lease for up to one
year on a month to month basis and
to make other changes as determined by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an amendment
to
the
lease
agreement
between the City of Cleveland and
Nehst Creations, LLC to extend the
term of the lease for up to an additional one-year period on a monthto-month basis and to make such
other changes to the lease as the
Director deems necessary.
Section 2. That the amendment to
the lease agreement authorized by
this ordinance shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and shall contain such additional terms and conditions as he deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning
Finance.
Ord. No. 654-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to lease certain
property in the Cleveland Municipal
Parking Lot to The Cleveland Clinic
Foundation for the purpose of parking, for a term not to exceed sixty
months.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as the
Cleveland Municipal Parking Lot, a
portion of which is not needed for
public use; and
Whereas, The Cleveland Clinic
Foundation has proposed to lease
the property from the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to lease to The Cleveland
Clinic Foundation (“Lessee”), certain property which is not needed
for public use for the term of the
lease: not to exceed 1,000 parking
spaces in the Cleveland Municipal

The City Record
Parking Lot (east) located on the
south side of the Cleveland Shoreway on South Marginal Road, more
fully described on the map placed in
File No. 654-10-A.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed sixty months.
Section 3. That the property described above shall be leased at a
rental of $40.00 per space per month
which is determined to be fair market value.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize the Lessee to make improvements to the leased premises
subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain any terms and conditions as are required to protect the
interests of the City.
Section 6. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
the Director of Law, and other appropriate City officials are authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning
Finance.
Ord. No. 655-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, the first whereas clause,
and Sections 1 and 8 of Ordinance
No. 683-09, passed May 18, 2009, relating to the sale of the Convention
Center and Malls B and C to the
County of Cuyahoga for the purposes of developing a Medical Mart
facility and new Convention Center.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title, the first
whereas clause, and Sections 1 and
8 of Ordinance No. 683-09, passed
May 18, 2009, are amended to read
as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell Cityowned property no longer needed for
public use known as Malls B and C,
certain land immediately north of
Mall C to the adjacent southern
boundary of the railroad right-ofway, and the current convention
center facility located underground
beneath Malls B and C to the County of Cuyahoga, for purposes of
developing a Medical Mart facility

686

May 19, 2010
and a new Convention Center; authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to reserve certain easement interests in Malls B
and C for the purpose of creating
and maintaining public park space
and reserving certain easement interests as appropriate in the land
immediately north of Mall C to the
adjacent southern boundary of the
railroad right-of-way; authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
agreements with the Commissioners
of Cuyahoga County regarding the
redevelopment and operations of the
property; and authorizing the Director of Finance to enter into an
agreement with a local foundation to
manage a City of Cleveland College
Scholarship Fund established by the
foundation for graduates of Cleveland Metropolitan School District;
and authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to
Cuyahoga County Commissioners, or
their designee, to encroach above,
upon and below public rights-of-way
immediately adjacent to and within
the areas described in this ordinance.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties has requested the sale of the City-owned
property known as Malls B and C,
certain land immediately north of
Mall C to the adjacent southern
boundary of the railroad right-ofway, and the current convention
center facility located underground
beneath Malls B and C (“Convention
Center Complex”) to the Commissioners of Cuyahoga County, on
behalf of the County of Cuyahoga
(the “County”) which is no longer
needed for public use, for purposes
of developing a Medical Mart facility and a new Convention Center;
and
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the property known as
Malls B and C, certain land immediately north of Mall C to the adjacent southern boundary of the railroad right-of-way, and the current
convention center facility located
underground beneath Malls B and C
(the “Convention Center Complex”)
also depicted on the map placed in
the file mentioned below, is no
longer needed for public use.
Section 8. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
agreements with the County regarding the development and future use
and operations of the Convention
Center Complex, which shall contain
the terms substantially that are in
the May 14, 2010 Letter of Intent
from the County, File No. 683-09-C. A
copy of the Definitive Agreement
referenced in the Letter of Intent
shall be deposited in the file upon
its execution.
Section 2. That the existing title,
the first whereas clause, and Sections 1 and 8 of Ordinance No. 68309, passed May 18, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

May 19, 2010
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning
Finance.
Ord. No. 656-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts with various housing development entities, or their
designees, to implement the Housing Trust Fund Program, for costs
associated with various housing
activities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various housing development entities, or their designees,
for the purpose of implementing the
Housing Trust Fund Program.
Section 2. That eligible activities
under the Housing Trust Fund Program include new construction, rehabilitation, site preparation, site
acquisition, predevelopment activities and financial assistance to
home buyers.
Section 3. That the cost of the contracts shall not exceed $5,953,000,
and shall be paid from Fund Nos. 19
SF 630, 19 SF 640, 14 SF 035, and 14
SF 036. Request No. RQS 2008, RL
2010-107.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment of loans authorized in this
ordinance and to deposit those
monies in Fund Nos. 14, and 19 and
utilize said repayments and other
program income in a revolving
fund for making additional expenditures under this program, and
such funds are hereby appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes,
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans made under this program.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into forbearance
agreements with any recipient of a
validly existing loan administered
by the City, and to charge and accept fees to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of loan documents,
closing, and servicing costs. Such
fees shall be deposited into Fund
No. 14 and Fund 19. The revenues
generated as a result of charging
fees are hereby appropriated for
additional program and operating

The City Record
expenses for Housing Trust Fund
activities.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 657-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more
contracts with various housing development entities, or their designees, for the acquisition, rehabilitation or construction of housing
units for low income persons through
the Community Housing Development Organization (CHDO) Affordable Low Income Rental Housing
Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various housing development entities, or their designees,
for the acquisition, rehabilitation
or construction of housing units for
low income persons through the
Community Housing Development
Organization (CHDO) Affordable
Low Income Rental Housing Program.
Section 2. That the cost of the
agreement or agreements authorized
shall not exceed $1,740,000 and shall
be paid from fund No. 19 SF 630 and
19 SF 640, Request No. RQS 8006, RL
2010-106.
Section 3. That the agreement or
agreements shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 658-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Mitchell and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 458-08,
passed April 28, 2008, relating to
land reutilization programs.

687

7
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 183.021 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 458-08, passed April 28, 2008, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 183.021 Land Reutilization
Programs
(a) Residential Land Bank.
(1) The Director of Community Development shall administer a Land
Reutilization Program for residential
property established under Chapter
5722 of the Revised Code and adopted and implemented by Ordinance
2076-76, passed October 25, 1976, and
shall perform the duties specified in
Chapter 5722.06 of the Revised Code.
Land acquired as part of the Land
Reutilization Program for residential property may be referred to as
Residential Land Bank property. If
Residential Land Bank property is
sold, it shall be sold according to
the terms of Chapter 5722 of the
Revised Code, without competitive
bidding, for not less than fair market value, with reference to such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants to assure the effective reutilization of the land, as the
Board of Control shall authorize,
and the land shall be conveyed
notwithstanding any other provisions of the Codified Ordinances to
the contrary.
(2) If a member of Council disapproves in writing to the use of the
process described in division (a)(3)
for selling property in the Residential Land Bank in his or her ward
and files written disapproval in File
No. 1547-90-A, then that process shall
not be used for the selling of the
property in his or her ward.
(3) The Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies when directed
by the Director of Community Development with the prior consent of the
member or members of Council in
whose ward or wards the land to be
sold is located, is authorized to sell
any land in the Residential Land
Bank to an abutting or adjacent
landowner if the land is either less
than
forty-eight
hundred
(4,800)
square feet or less than forty (40)
feet of street frontage and if the
landowner purchasing the land is
neither tax delinquent or has any
existing Building or Housing Code
violations. The consideration for
any land sold under the authority of
this division shall be fixed by the
Board of Control in accordance with
division (a)(1) of this section. Each
instrument of conveyance shall contain provisions and use restrictions
as
Council
deems
necessary
or
appropriate to protect the interests
of the neighborhood and the City.
(4) Any land in the Residential
Land Bank that is not authorized to
be sold by the Director of Community
Development
in
accordance
with division (a)(3) of this section
shall only be sold when authorized
by ordinance passed by the Council.
(5) Before the acquisition of any
residential property with multiple
parcels into the Residential Land

8
Bank, the Director of Community
Development shall conduct all appropriate inquiries in accordance
with rules adopted by the United
States Environmental Protection
Agency under the requirements of
the Small Business Liability Relief
and Brownfields Revitalization Act
(Pub. L. No. 107-118, 115 stat. 2356).
(b) Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank.
(1) The Director of Economic Development shall administer a Land
Reutilization Program for industrial
and commercial property established
under Chapter 5722 of the Revised
Code and adopted and implemented
by Ordinance 2076-76, passed October
25, 1976, and shall perform the
duties specified in Chapter 5722.06 of
the Revised Code. Land, including
residential properties, acquired as
part of the Land Reutilization Program for industrial and commercial
property may be referred to as
Industrial-Commercial Land Bank
property. If Industrial-Commercial
Land Bank property is sold, it shall
be sold according to the terms of
Chapter 5722 of the Revised Code,
without competitive bidding, for not
less than fair market value, with
reference to such terms and conditions, restrictions and covenants to
assure the effective reutilization of
the land, as the Board of Control
shall authorize, and the land shall
be conveyed notwithstanding any
other provisions of the Codified
Ordinances to the contrary.
(2) If a member of Council disapproves in writing to the use of the
process described in division (b)(3)
for selling property in the Industrial-Commercial Land Bank in his or
her ward and files written disapproval in File No. 1547-90-A, then
that process shall not be used for
the selling of the property in his or
her ward.
(3) The Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies when directed
by the Director of Economic Development with the prior consent of
the member or members of Council
in whose ward or wards the land to
be sold is located, is authorized to
sell any land in the Industrial-Commercial Land Bank to an abutting
or adjacent landowner if the land
is either less than forty-eight hundred (4,800) square feet or less than
forty (40) feet of street frontage
and if the landowner purchasing
the land is neither tax delinquent
or has any existing Building or
Housing Code violations. The consideration for any land sold under
the authority of this division shall
be fixed by the Board of Control in
accordance with division (b)(1) of
this section. Each instrument of
conveyance shall contain provisions
and use restrictions as Council
deems necessary or appropriate to
protect the interests of the neighborhood and the City.
(4) Any land in the Industrial-Commercial Land Bank that is not authorized to be sold by the Director of
Economic Development in accordance
with division (b)(3) of this section
shall only be sold when authorized
by ordinance passed by the Council.
(5) The Director of Economic Development is authorized to deposit
the proceeds from the sale of any
industrial or commercial property

The City Record
from the Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank into Special Revenue Fund No.
17 SF 965. This fund shall be used
for costs associated with acquisition
and disposition of industrial and
commercial property as part of this
Land Reutilization Program. Further, funds received by the City of
Cleveland as a result of direct insurance claim settlements, cost recovery efforts initiated by the Land
Reutilization Program for industrial
and commercial property, demolition
or remediation actions as a result of
the Program, and grants, donations
or any other sources pledged to the
Program shall be deposited in Special Revenue Fund No. 17 SF 965.
(6) The Director of Economic
Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to
employ and pay all fees for title
companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental insurance,
environmental investigations, remediation, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition and disposition of the property including
costs and fees for agents to conduct
acquisition activities, and to comply
with any applicable Federal or state
regulatory requirements. That the
costs of these contracts shall be
paid from Fund 17 SF 965 and from
any other funds or subfunds which
are appropriated for this use.
(7) Before the acquisition of any
industrial or commercial property
into the Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank, the Director of Economic Development shall conduct all appropriate inquiries in accordance with
rules adopted by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency
under the requirements of the Small
Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act (Pub. L. No.
107-118, 115 stat. 2356).
Section 2. That existing Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 458-08, passed
April 28, 2008, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Community Development, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 659-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the United States Environmental Protection Agency under
the Brownfield Area-Wide Planning
Pilot Program; and authorizing the
Director to employ one or more professional consultants to prepare the
redevelopment plan.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

688

May 19, 2010
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
apply for and accept a grant or
grants, from the United States Environmental Protection Agency under
the Brownfield Area-Wide Planning
Pilot Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
Executive Summary for the grant
contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the Executive
Summary for the grant, File No. 65910-A, made a part of this ordinance
as if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to prepare the redevelopment plan.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Economic
Development from a list of qualified
consultants available for employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Economic Development
for the purpose of compiling a list.
The compensation to be paid for the
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Economic Development,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 4. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted in
this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 660-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment
to Contract No. 64214 with Sterling
Telecom Office Building LLC to extend the term of the loan for one
year.

May 19, 2010
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. 64214 with Sterling
Telecom Office Building LLC to extend the term of the loan for one
year under the terms placed in File
No. 660-10-A.
Section
2.
That
the
contract
amendment shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 661-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
K. Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one or more
contracts with URS Corporation Ohio, or in the alternative, to enter
into one or more amendments to
Contract No. 63915 with URS Corporation - Ohio both to provide professional services necessary to complete remediation work on the Midland Steel site.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with URS Corporation - Ohio
for professional services necessary
to complete remediation work on the
Midland Steel site, in a sum up to
$200,000, for the Department of Economic Development.
Section 2. That, in the alternative,
the Director of Economic Development is authorized to enter into one
or more amendments to Contract No.
63915 with URS Corporation - Ohio
to provide continuing services necessary
to
complete
remediation
work on the Midland Steel site, in a
sum up to $200,000, for the Department of Economic Development.
Section 3. That the contracts or
contract amendments shall be paid
from the fund or funds which are
credited the grant proceeds received
under Ordinance No. 463-09, passed
April 20, 2009, and are appropriated
for this purpose.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 662-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and the fourth whereas
clause
of
Ordinance
No.
700-08,
passed June 9, 2008, relating to the
transfer, lease, and sale of the Trinity Property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and the
fourth whereas clause of Ordinance
No. 700-08, passed June 9, 2008, are
amended to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to transfer Permanent
Parcel No. 001-30-006, to the control,
possession, and use of the Department of Economic Development for
environmental
remediation
and
development; authorizing the Director of Economic Development to
enter into a lease with option to
purchase a portion of the property,
to Penstan Limited, for a period of
up to five years, with two five-year
options to renew, exercisable by
the Director of Economic Development; authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell
approximately 0.62 acres of Cityowned property no longer needed
for public use located within the
transferred property to Penstan
Limited, for the purpose of development.
Whereas, once under the control
of the Department of Economic Development, the Director will enter
into a lease with option to purchase, with adjacent owner, Penstan Limited (“Penstan”), of a 0.62acre portion of the Trinity Property,
for a period not to exceed five years,
with two five-year options to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Economic Development, for the purpose
of Penstan using the property as an
access driveway to their existing
facility or for future expansion of
their facility; and
Section 2. That the existing title
and the fourth whereas clause of
Ordinance No. 700-08, passed June 9,
2008, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

689

9
Ord. No. 665-10.
By Council Members Miller and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts bidding with Greenstar
Pittsburgh, LLC for the processing
recyclable materials and for processing of recyclable waste material at a contractor’s facility, for the
Department of Public Service, for a
period of two years.
Whereas, under authority of Ordinance No. 543-09, the City received
bids for the processing of recyclable
materials; and
Whereas, Greenstar Pittsburgh, LLC
was determined to be the lowest and
best bidder; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council finds
that Greenstar Pittsburgh, LLC is
the lowest and best bidder and that
the Director of Public Service is
authorized to make one or more
written requirement contracts with
Greenstar Pittsburgh, LLC, for the
requirements for a period of two
years, for the processing of recyclable materials and for processing
of recyclable waste material at a
contractor’s facility.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL RQN 4003
RL 2010-23)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 666-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of the rental and
laundry of work clothing, for the various divisions of City government, for
a period of three years, with two oneyear options to renew, exercisable by
the Director of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement con-

10
tracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the term of three years, with twoone year options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Finance, for
the necessary items of the rental
and laundry of work clothing in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the various divisions of City
government. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance. (Request No.
RQN 1505 RL 2010-25)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Finance
may sign all documents that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 663-10.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Zone, Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to
the Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for the rehabilitation
of the Lake Avenue and West 76th
Street pedestrian tunnels; authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into any relative agreements;
and causing payment of the City’s
share to the State for the cost of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is given
to the Director of Transportation of
the State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: rehabilitation of the Lake Avenue pedestrian tunnel and the West 76th Street
pedestrian tunnel beneath the West
Shoreway (SR 2/US Routes 6 and 20)
and Norfolk Southern Railroad, including the construction of associated pedestrian ramps, lighting improvements and landscaping, lying
within the City of Cleveland (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost
of the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation, and less the State’s portion
of the cost of the Improvement. However, the City agrees to assume and
contribute 100% of the cost of any
items included in the construction
contract at the request of the City,
which are determined by the State
not eligible or made necessary by the
Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain terms and conditions that the
Director of Law determines shall best
protect the public interest.
Section 4. That on completion of
the Improvement, the City will:
(a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
(b) Maintain the Improvement
according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance;
(c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the State and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes;
(d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices under the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices under the provisions of Section
4511.11 and related sections of the
Revised Code;
(e) Follow and maintain post-construction Best Management Practices as outlined in the Municipal
Storm Water Permit that is filed
with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency; and
(f) Prohibit all parking within the
limits of the roadway which is a
part of the Improvement under Section 4511.66 of the Revised Code,
unless otherwise controlled by City
ordinance or resolution.
Section 5. (a) That all existing
streets
and
public
rights-of-way
within the City that are necessary
for the Improvement shall be made
available.
(b) That the City agrees that all
right-of-way required for the described
project will be acquired and/or made
available under current State and federal regulations. The City also understands that right-of-way costs include
eligible utility costs.

690

May 19, 2010
(c) That arrangements have been
or will be made with and agreements obtained from all utility companies whose lines or structures will
be affected by the Improvement.
That the companies have agreed to
make
any
and
all
necessary
rearrangements in such manner as
to be clear of any construction
called for by the plans for the
Improvement. That the companies
have agreed to make necessary rearrangements immediately after notification by the City or the State.
(d) That the City, at its own
expense, shall make all rearrangements of water mains, service lines,
fire hydrants, valve boxes, sanitary
sewers, or other City-owned utilities
and appurtenances which do not
comply with the reimbursement provisions of ODOT Utilities Manual.
Publicly-owned facilities which do
comply with the reimbursement provisions of the ODOT Utilities Manual will be removed and/or relocated
at project expense, exclusive of betterments.
(e) That the construction, reconstruction, and rearrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner as
not to interfere unduly with the operations of the contractor or contractors
constructing the Improvement, and
all backfilling of trenches made necessary by utility rearrangement shall
be performed under the provisions of
the ODOT Construction and Material
Specifications.
(f) That the installation of all
utility facilities, relocation, and reimbursement on the right-of-way
shall conform with the requirements
of Title 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 6. That this Council requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 7. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement
from Fund No. 52 SF 001, Request
No. RQS 4004 RL 2010-114.
Section 8. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
transmit to the State three (3) certified copies of this ordinance immediately on its taking effect, and it
shall become the basis for proceeding with the Improvement.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 664-10.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating Columbia Avenue between East
102nd Street eastbound to East 105th
Street with a secondary and honorary designation of “Alice M. Dawson Way”.

May 19, 2010
Whereas, Mrs. Alice Marie Dawson served the Glenville community
as a dedicated citizen for sixty
years until she went to her eternal
rest and reward on February 4, 2010,
at the beautiful age of 87; and,
Whereas, working hard to help
support her family, Alice devoted 10
years working at Delonds, followed
by 20 years of dedicated service
with the Cleveland Board of Education assisting with nutritional needs
at Columbia Elementary and Michael
R. White Elementary schools; and
Whereas, Alice distinguished herself as an outstanding citizen by her
active involvement in her church
and community, by helping others
and making people smile, and received many awards for her tireless
efforts; and
Whereas, Alice’s proudest moment
was being able to see her grandson,
Arcie, not only graduate from high
school, but from college as well; and
Whereas, She was also a freedom
rider that led the way to the first
black president; and
Whereas, the citizens of Glenville
want to honor Mrs. Alice M. Dawson
as a token of their appreciation by
designating Columbia Avenue between East 102nd Street eastbound
to East 105th Street as “Alice M.
Dawson Way”; and,
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Columbia Avenue
between East 102nd Street eastbound to East 105th Street is designated with a secondary and honorary designation of “Alice M. Dawson Way”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 667-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch banners at East 55th and
Scovill near East Tech, for the period from May 25, 2010 to June 28, 2010
inclusive, publicizing the Fifth Annual Ward 5 Family Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,

The City Record
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a permit to Burten, Bell, Carr Development to install, maintain and remove banners at East 55th and Scovill near East Tech east side for the
period from May 25, 2010 to June 28,
2010 inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 668-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Sagrada Familia Church to
stretch banners at 7750 Detroit
Avenue and 7775 Detroit Avenue, for
the period from June 1, 2010 to June
30, 2010, inclusive, publicizing the
Church Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a permit to the Sagrada Familia
Church to install, maintain and remove banners at 7750 Detroit and
7775 Detroit Avenue for the period
from June 1, 2010 to June 30, 2010,
inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.

691

11
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 676-10.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Public Health to enter into an
agreement with the Slavic Village
Development Corporation for a Noise
Abatement Survey Study through
the use of Ward 12 Neighborhood
Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Health is
hereby authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Slavic Village
Development Corporation for the
Noise Abatement Survey Study for
the public purpose of determining if
a noise nuisance exists in the East
63rd Street Slavic Village Neighborhood area in the city of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 12 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,700 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 669-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution to amend
Resolution No. 566-10 adopted April
26, 2010 relating to supporting the
MidTown Cleveland, Inc.’s application to the State of Ohio Job Ready

12
Sites Program for the Euclid Tech
Center Project at 6700 Euclid Ave.,
Cleveland Ohio 44103.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Resolution No. 56610 adopted April 26, 2010 is hereby
amended to include the following
“whereas” clause as follows:
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
supports the provision of service to
the Euclid Tech Center facility from
all municipally owned and/or controlled utilities including Cleveland
Public Power, Cleveland Water Pollution Control and Cleveland Division of Water assets as necessary
and feasible at capacities specified
by the State of Ohio Job Ready Sites
Program and confirmed with each
utility in writing obtained by the
applicant; and
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
the Ohio Department of Development, MidTown Cleveland, Inc. and
LCA 6700 Euclid, LLC.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 670-10.
By Council Members Conwell, Dow,
Miller, Keane, K. Johnson, Zone,
Westbrook, Polensek and Mitchell.
An emergency resolution urging
that
the
Cleveland
Metropolitan
School District and the CMSD Board
develop and make public a safety
and security plan for the school
buildings that are already closed
and those that soon will be closed,
which plan shall include the creation of a fund to be used to reimburse the City of Cleveland for any
demolition, boarding up, repairing
or otherwise securing of the properties that may be performed by the
City.
Whereas, the Cleveland Metropolitan School District (CMSD) intends
to demolish 25 buildings, including
13 of 16 schools scheduled to close
in June; and
Whereas, the demolition apparently includes buildings already closed
by CMSD and left vacant for years;
and
Whereas, although CMSD says it
will demolish these 25 buildings,
CMSD has not given a time frame
when such demolitions will be accomplished and some schools that
have been closed previously are still
sitting vacant; and
Whereas, vacant school buildings
have been and will continue to be a
huge maintenance and security problem for residents of those neighbor-

The City Record
hoods and for the City as a whole;
and
Whereas, CMSD has not provided
adequate maintenance or security for
school buildings previously closed;
and
Whereas, unless CMSD provides
security for and adequately maintains the closed school buildings
prior to demolition, then the City of
Cleveland will be obligated to do so,
for the safety and security of its
neighborhoods and citizens living
there; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
should be reimbursed for all services performed in keeping the
vacant school buildings safe and
secure; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges that the Cleveland Metropolitan
School
District
and
the
CMSD Board develop and make public a safety and security plan for the
school buildings that are already
closed and those that soon will be
closed, which plan shall include the
creation of a fund to be used to
reimburse the City of Cleveland for
any demolition, boarding up, repairing or otherwise securing of the
properties that may be performed by
the City.
Section 2. That the Clerk is directed to transmit certified copies of
this resolution to Eugene Sanders,
CEO, Cleveland Metropolitan School
District and all members of the
CMSD Board.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 671-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 212123 East 2nd Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from Chick Buds,
LLC, DBA Cleats Gateway, 1st floor
only, 2121-23 East 2nd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number
1426024 to PJ Mag Enterprises, Inc.,
DBA Cleats Gateway, 1st floor only,
2121-23 East 2nd Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44115,
Permanent
Number
5655530; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and

692

May 19, 2010
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Chick Buds,
LLC, DBA Cleats Gateway, 1st floor
only, 2121-23 East 2nd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number
1426024 to PJ Mag Enterprises, Inc.,
DBA Cleats Gateway, 1st floor only,
2121-23 East 2nd Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44115,
Permanent
Number
5655530; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 672-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 526 Superior Avenue.

May 19, 2010
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Bar One Sushi, Inc., DBA Bar One
Sushi, 1st floor and basement, 526
Superior Avenue, Suite 101, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
0435370 to SWB Bar One, LLC, DBA
The Leader Lounge, 1st floor and
basement, 526 Superior Avenue, Suite
101, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 7655380; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit from Bar One
Sushi, Inc., DBA Bar One Sushi, 1st
floor and basement, 526 Superior
Avenue, Suite 101, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 0435370
to SWB Bar One, LLC, DBA The
Leader Lounge, 1st floor and basement, 526 Superior Avenue, Suite
101, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 7655380; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 673-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 2000
Sycamore Street, Unit 121.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from Revir, LLC,
DBA Riverwalk Café, 2nd floor NE
Patio and Atrium, 2000 Sycamore
Street, Unit 121, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permanent Number 7315537 to PSR
Acquisition, LLC, DBA Windows on
the River, 2nd floor NE Patio &
Atrium, 2000 Sycamore Street, Unit
121, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 66279870010; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Revir, LLC,
DBA Riverwalk Café, 2nd floor NE

693

13
Patio and Atrium, 2000 Sycamore
Street, Unit 121, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 7315537 to
PSR Acquisition, LLC, DBA Windows on the River, 2nd floor NE
Patio & Atrium, 2000 Sycamore Street,
Unit 121, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 66279870010; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 674-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting the Cleveland Public Theatre’s
application to the Department of
Development Brownfield Revolving
Loan Fund for the Cleveland Public
Theatre Rehabilitation Project, and
encouraging the Department of Development to fund this innovative
and worthwhile project.
Whereas,
The
State
of
Ohio,
through the Department of Development, provides financial assistance
to local governments for the purpose
of addressing local needs; and
Whereas, Cleveland Public Theatre is submitting a Brownfield Revolving Loan Fund Program Application to complete eligible activities, including but not limited to the
performance of remedial activities
at the Cleveland Public Theatre
Rehabilitation Project; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Public Theatre Rehabilitation Project is an approximately 1.48 acre property located principally at 6415 Detroit Avenue,
identified as Permanent Parcels Numbers 002.16.015, 002.16.016, 002.16.017,
002.16.018, 002.16.019, 002.16.020, 002.16.013,
and 002.16.014, and located within
the boundary of the City of Cleveland’s Ward 15; and
Whereas, Cleveland Public Theatre intends to remediate asbestos
at the property to allow future redevelopment; and
Whereas, Councilman Matt Zone is
committed to working with Cleveland Public Theatre to pursue the
remediation and redevelopment of
the property; and
Whereas, the Brownfield Revolving Loan Fund grant is vital to
making the completion of the Cleveland Public Theatre Rehabilitation
Project economically feasible; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the

14
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the Cleveland Public Theatre’s
application to the Department of
Development Brownfield Revolving
Loan Fund for the Cleveland Public
Theatre Rehabilitation Project, and
encouraging the Department of Development to fund this innovative
and worthwhile project.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to send a copy of this
resolution to the Cleveland Public
Theatre.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 675-10.
By Council Members Zone, Pruitt,
Mitchell, Cleveland, Brady, Cummins, J. Johnson, Cimperman, Westbrook and Conwell.
An emergency resolution calling
upon United States Congress to pass
Comprehensive Immigration Reform
that will solve the problem of undocumented immigration at its roots
instead of through piecemeal enforcement-only measures, and opposing Arizona’s Senate Bill 1070.
Whereas, a comprehensive approach to solve our broken immigration system is necessary to meet
the dual goals of ensuring a thriving and secure community and economy in the United States and protecting the human and civil rights
of immigrants; and
Whereas, comprehensive immigration reform should include the following elements: (1) an earned path
to citizenship that requires currently undocumented immigrants living
in the United States to register with
the government, begin learning English, pay-taxes, and pass a background check; (2) improvement of
the economic situation of all workers in the United States; (3) the
implementation of enforcement measures targeted at violators of immigration and labor laws and those
who represent real threats to our
nation’s safety; (4) prioritizing immigrant integration into our country; (5) respect for the due process
rights of everyone in the United
States; and (6) adjusting quotas for
future flows of immigrants, including family reunification; and
Whereas, enforcement-based immigration strategies for the past two
decades have mostly failed in deterring unauthorized migration despite
the allocations of hundreds of millions of federal tax dollars; and
Whereas, our city is facing difficult budget cuts and critical services such as police, fire, schools
and transportation would benefit

The City Record
from the additional tax revenue generated by a program of comprehensive immigration reform with an
earned path to citizenship; and
Whereas, this Council encourages
President Barack Obama and the
U.S. Congress to pass a Comprehensive Immigration Reform bill that
keeps families together, upholds our
values as Americans, promotes economic growth and fixes the broken
immigration system for the longterm; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council calls
upon United States Congress to pass
Comprehensive Immigration Reform
that will solve the problem of undocumented immigration at its roots instead of through piecemeal enforcement-only measures, and opposing
Arizona’s Senate Bill 1070.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
President Barack Obama, Speaker
Nancy Pelosi, House Minority Leader
John
Boehner,
Senate
Majority
Leader Harry Reid, Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell, Senator
Chuck Schumer, Senator Lindsey
Graham, Senator Richard Durbin,
Senator George Voinovich, Senator
Sherrod Brown, Representatives Dennis Kucinich, Marcia Fudge, and
Steven LaTourette.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 2.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Reed,
Westbrook and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members Polensek and Reed.
Absent: Council Member Brancatelli.
Res. No. 677-10.
By Council Members Conwell, Dow,
Polensek, J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt
and Mitchell.
An emergency resolution urging the
128th Ohio General Assembly to introduce legislation similar to HB0363
introduced by the 96th Illinois General Assembly.
Whereas, on January 30, 2009, the
96th Illinois General Assembly, House
of Representatives introduced HB0363
to amend the Chicago School District Article of the School Code; and
Whereas, HB0363 provides for a
Special Joint Chicago Education
Facilities Committee with members
appointed by the Speaker of the
House, the President of the Senate,
and the Governor; and

694

May 19, 2010
Whereas, HB0363 requires the
establishment of a Chicago Educational Task Force in order to ensure that school facility-related
decisions are made with the input of
the community and reflect educationally sound and fiscally responsible criteria; and
Whereas,
HB0363
requires
the
Chicago Educational Task Force,
with the help of independent experts, to analyze past Chicago experiences, and data with respect to
school openings, school closings,
school modernizations, school boundary changes, and other elated school
facility issues and their related
costs; and
Whereas, HB0363 requires the Chicago Educational Task Force to examine relevant best practices from
other school systems for dealing
with these issues systematically and
equitably; and
Whereas, HB0363 provides for draft
recommendations, final proposed policy and legislative recommendations,
and final recommendations to be
submitted to the General Assembly,
the Governor, and the school district; and
Whereas,
HB0363
requires
the
State Board of Education and the
school district to provide administrative support to the task force;
and
Whereas, HB0363 provides that
there shall be a moratorium on
school closings, consolidations, and
phase-outs in the school district in
the 2009-2010 school year, and provides that any of these actions that
are subsequently appropriate shall
be carried out no sooner than the
end of the 2010-2011 school year; and
Whereas, HB0363 passed through
the House and Senate with amendments and passed as Public Act 960803 on November 3, 2009; and
Whereas, in light of the Cleveland
Municipal School District transformation plan that calls for school
closings, the Ohio General Assembly
must intervene to consider similar
legislation in Ohio; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the 128th Ohio General Assembly to
introduce legislation similar to HB0363
introduced by the 96th Illinois General Assembly.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
the 128th Ohio General Assembly
and Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

May 19, 2010
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCE
Ord. No. 496-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an agreement with Sunpu-Opto
Semiconductor, Ltd., a Chinese company, relating to locating its assembly, distribution, customer service,
manufacturing, and research and
development facilities in Cleveland,
creating new jobs, and the purchase
by requirement contract of LED
bulbs, fluorescent tubes, streetlights
and traffic lights for the various
departments of City government for
a period of up to ten years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance, when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, in lines 3 and 4,
strike “Sunpu-Opto Semiconductor,
Ltd., a Chinese company” and insert
“Sunpu-Opto Semiconductor, Ltd., a
Chinese Company, doing business in
the United States as Sunpu Opto
USA Inc.”.
2. In the first Whereas clause,
lines 1 and 2, strike “Sunpu-Opto
Semiconductor, Ltd., (“Sunpu”), a
Chinese company, is a manufacturer
specializing in” and insert “SunpuOpto Semiconductor, Ltd., a Chinese
Company, doing business in the
United States as Sunpu Opto USA
Inc., (“Sunpu”) is a manufacturer
specializing in a full range of”.
3. In the fifth Whereas clause,
line 3, strike “purchase of LED products” and insert “purchase of the
full range of LED products required
by the City”.
4. In Section 1, line 2, strike “Sunpu-Opto Semiconductor, Ltd.” and insert “Sunpu”.
5. In Section 1, part “a.”, line 1;
part “b.” line 1; and in part “c.”, line
1, strike “work diligently toward the
location of” in all three places and
insert “locate”.
6. In Section 1, part “d.”, line 1,
strike “work diligently toward the
creation of” and insert “create”.
7. In Section 1, part “f.”, line 4,
after the comma strike “and”; insert
new parts “g.”, “h.” and “i.” to read
as follows:
“g. Sunpu shall comply with the
Fannie M. Lewis Cleveland Resident
Employment Law, Chapter 188 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, in the performance
of contracts awarded by Sunpu for
the construction, rehabilitation, improvement, alteration, conversion,
extension, demolition or repair of
Sunpu’s Cleveland facilities, and the
Cleveland Fair Employment Law,
Chapter 189 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976;
h. If Sunpu does not obtain UL
certification for any of the LED
products to be supplied under the
Agreement within 24 months of execution of the Agreement, then the
Agreement shall terminate;
i. To determine the manufacturer
direct pricing is at or below the
costs for other comparable LED
products, the City’s Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies shall canvass prices for the line of products
provided by Sunpu prior to the
City’s first purchase and every year

The City Record
thereafter; and”; and reletter existing part “g.” to new part “j.”.
8. Insert new Section 4 to read as
follows: “Section 4. That a copy of
the executed agreement shall be
placed in File No. 496-10-A.”.
9. Renumber existing Section 4 to
new “Section 5.”.
Amendments agreed to.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 266-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to lease the
Seneca Golf Course and certain adjacent
property
to
the
Cleveland
Metroparks and the City of Broadview Heights for a term of ninetynine years.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Properties and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 5, lines 6 and 7,
strike “The adjacent property identified on the map placed in the file
shall be maintained as a natural
area.” and insert “The lease for the
adjacent property identified on the
map placed in the file shall provide
that the adjacent property shall be
maintained as a natural area for
municipal
recreation
and
green
space use only and not for private
development.”.
2. In Section 7, line 2, after
“leases.” insert “Such revenues shall
be placed in a fund designated by
the Director of Finance to be used
for the maintenance of the Highland
Golf Course.”.
3. Insert new Section 10 to read as
follows:
“Section 10. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
shall advise the Committee on Public Parks, Property and Recreation
of the terms of the final lease agreement.”.
4. Renumber existing Section 10 to
new “Section 11”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 466-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into grant agreements with The Ohio State University and Parkworks, Inc. to provide
financial assistance for the purchase of materials and supplies and
installation of various improvements
to City-owned eligible properties
under the vacant property alternative use pilot program, including
fences, sheds, trees, shrubs, and
other vegetation, and for all other
purposes necessary to implement the

695

15
vacant property alternative use pilot
program; and authorizing the Director of Community Development to
lease the improved land bank lots to
various entities, agencies, and individuals for a period up to five years.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance, when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end, add the
following: “The Department of Community Development shall require
that future applicants for grants
from the City under the Vacant
Property Alternative Use Program
shall request letters of support from
the council members whose wards
are affected by the activities of
their grant applications.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Cimperman, recused himself from the vote
regarding
Ordinance
No.
466-10.
Council Member Cimperman further
requested that the City Record
reflect his recusal.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 517-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant funds for expenses for the
Demolition Program and emergency
contracts under the Board-up Program; authorizing the Director of
Building and Housing to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies to implement these programs; and authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirement contracts
for the items of labor and materials
necessary to implement the Board-up
Program.
Approved by Directors of Community
Development,
Building
and
Housing, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 554-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with one or more non-profit agencies
to operate a community garden program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record

16
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 368-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
located on W. 65th Street between
Fir Avenue and Madison Avenue
and lands south of Madison along
the railroad ending at Aspen Ct. to
Two Family Residential, a ‘B’ Area
District and a ‘1’ Height District
(Map Change No. 2298 Sheet No. 1).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 460-10.
By Council Member Cummins.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land on the northeast corner of Seymour Avenue and W. 30th
Street from Two Family Residential
to Residence- Industry (Map Change
No. 2300; Sheet No. 1).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 621-10.
By Council Members Zone and
Westbrook.
An emergency resolution approving the formation of the Gordon
Square Arts District — Cleveland
Improvement District as a Special
Improvement District in the City;
accepting petitions from owners of
property in the proposed District;
approving the Articles of Incorporation of the Gordon Square Arts
District — Cleveland Improvement
Corporation; and approving the initial plan for public services; declaring it necessary to provide for
cleaning and maintenance of the
public rights-of-way within the Gordon Square Arts District — Cleveland Improvement District, additional
security
for
the
Gordon
Square Arts District — Cleveland
Improvement District, and collective
marketing
of
the
Gordon
Square Arts District - Cleveland
Improvement District; and providing for the assessment of the cost
and expense of such work upon
benefited property in the Gordon
Square Arts District — Cleveland
Improvement District and declaring
an emergency.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Public Service, Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Public Service, Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

MOTION
By Council Member Zone, seconded
by Council Member Reed, and unanimously carried, that the absence of
Council Member Anthony Brancatelli,
be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
11:45 p.m. to meet on Monday, May 24,
2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Sandra Franklin
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
Pro Tempore

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on
final passage at the next Council
Meeting:
Ord. No. 496-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an agreement with Sunpu-Opto
Semiconductor, Ltd., a Chinese Company, doing business in the United
States as Sunpu Opto USA Inc., relating to locating its assembly, distribution, customer service, manufacturing, and research and development facilities in Cleveland, creating new jobs, and the purchase by
requirement contract of LED bulbs,
fluorescent tubes, streetlights and
traffic lights for the various departments of City government for a period of up to ten years.
Whereas, Sunpu-Opto Semiconductor, Ltd., a Chinese Company, doing
business in the United States as
Sunpu Opto USA Inc., (“Sunpu”) is
a manufacturer specializing in a
full range of LED lighting products,
including products for home, office,
industrial, street lighting, and traffic signal uses; and
Whereas, Sunpu has proposed to
locate its assembly, distribution,
customer service, support center,
manufacturing, and research and development facilities in the City of
Cleveland, the first such facilities
owned by Sunpu in the United
States; and
Whereas, Sunpu anticipates that
Sunpu’s
facilities
will
generate
approximately 350 new jobs in the
City of Cleveland in the next five
years; and
Whereas, Sunpu has proposed to
supply the City’s requirements for
LED streetlights, LED fluorescent
tubes, LED bulbs, and LED traffic
lights meeting the City’s standards
(“LED products”) for use by the various municipal departments for a
period of up to ten years at or below
the price for all other comparable
LED products; and
Whereas, this Council determines
that the economic development benefits flowing to the City of Cleveland from the proposed facilities
located in the City by Sunpu, as well

696

May 19, 2010
as its pricing terms for the purchase
of the full range of LED products
required by the City, are non-competitive, unique, and cannot be
obtained from any other source; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Sunpu, relating
to building and constructing their
first United States facilities in the
City of Cleveland and the furnishing of the City’s requirements for
LED products for use by the various divisions of City government for
a period of up to 10 years at or
below pricing for all other LED
comparable products, and including
the following milestones and terms:
a. Sunpu shall locate its first
assembly and distribution facilities
and customer service and support
center for LED products in the United States to Cleveland within 18
months of the execution of the
agreement;
b. Sunpu shall locate its first manufacturing facility for LED products
in the United States to Cleveland
within 36 months of the execution of
the agreement;
c. Sunpu shall locate its first
research and development facility in
the United States within 60 months
of the execution of the agreement;
d. Sunpu shall create a minimum
of 350 new jobs at its facilities in
Cleveland within 60 months of the
execution of the agreement;
e. Sunpu shall supply Cleveland
with its requirements for LED products for use by the various divisions
of City government for a period of
up to 10 years at or below comparable LED pricing for all other LED
products as periodically determined
by the City’s Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies;
f. Provided that Sunpu complies
with its milestones and other representations under the agreement, the
City shall purchase its requirements
for LED products for a period of 10
years
commencing
when
Sunpu
begins assembly operations in the
City;
g. Sunpu shall comply with the
Fannie M. Lewis Cleveland Resident
Employment Law, Chapter 188 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, in the performance
of contracts awarded by Sunpu for
the construction, rehabilitation, improvement, alteration, conversion,
extension, demolition or repair of
Sunpu’s Cleveland facilities, and the
Cleveland Fair Employment Law,
Chapter 189 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976;
h. If Sunpu does not obtain UL
certification for any of the LED
products to be supplied under the
Agreement within 24 months of execution of the Agreement, then the
Agreement shall terminate;
i. To determine the manufacturer
direct pricing is at or below the
costs for other comparable LED
products, the City’s Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies shall canvass prices for the line of products

The City Record

May 19, 2010
provided by Sunpu prior to the
City’s first purchase and every year
thereafter; and
j. Such other terms and provisions
as the Director of Law determines
necessary to protect and benefit the
City’s interests.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract for the purchase of LED
products shall be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts
and the Director of Finance shall
certify the amount of the initial purchase,
which
purchase,
together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
requisition against the contract or
contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 3. That the Directors of
Finance and Public Utilities are
authorized
to
take
such
other
actions as may be necessary or
appropriate in connection with carrying out the terms of the agreement authorized in Section 1, including making purchases of Sunpu’s
LED streetlights and fluorescent
tubes to examine their applicability
to various City operations provided
that all such purchases do not exceed $50,000.
Section 4. That a copy of the executed agreement shall be placed in
File No. 496-10-A.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

BOARD OF CONTROL

May 12, 2010
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, May 12, 2010,
at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi
presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers,
Acting
Director
Hoose,
Directors
Wasik,
Carroll,
Flask,
Cox, Rush, Acting Director West,
Directors Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Others: James Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Natoya Walker, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 176-10.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of April,
2010 in the amount of $14,539.00,

17

attached and made a part of this
resolution, is received, approved and
ordered filed.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 177-10.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on April 9, 2010 for
an estimated quantity of janitorial
supplies, Group B, items 70-71, 83,
83a, 105, 114, 117, 119, 120-121 and
125, for various divisions of City
government, under the authority of
Section 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 178-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1260-06, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on November 20,
2006, as amended by Ordinance No.
757-09, passed July 1, 2009, and Ordinance No. 1661-09, passed December
7, 2009, Cuyahoga Community College is selected from a list of firms
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Public
Utilities as the firm to be employed
by contract to provide Professional
Services for a comprehensive program of providing general, remedial,
developmental and technical training for the staff, as well as other
related services, for a term not exceeding two years, for the various
Divisions of the Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
Cuyahoga Community College based
upon its proposal dated, December
23, 2009, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide for furnishing of professional services described in the proposal, for an aggregate fee of
$1,000,000.00, and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Cuyahoga Community College for the above mentioned
professional services is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Moss-Card Consulting,
Inc. (CSB/MBE/FBE)

I.T. Solutions Consulting
(CSB/FBE)

697

$10,000.00
1.00%

$40,000.00
4.00%

Organizational Effectiveness
Strategies, Inc. (CSB/FBE) $90,000.00
9.00%
APB & Associates, Inc.

$40,000.00
4.00%

Communications Consultants,
Inc.
$20,000.00
2.00%
Operator Training Committee
of Ohio, Inc.
$50,000.00
5.00%
Baldwin Wallace College

Strategic Leadership
Solutions

$40,000.00
4.00%

$10,000.00
1.00%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 179-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Southeastern Equipment Co., Inc. for an estimated
quantity of item (1) Case and item
(2) Gradall equipment parts and
labor, all items, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of three years beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on November 12, 2009,
under
the
authority
of
Section
131.17 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $350,000.00 (Net 30
Days), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Public
Service
is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in the
sum of $50,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 180-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Truck Service, Inc.
dba Cleveland Spring Service for
an estimated quantity of various
auto/truck spring parts and repair,
all items, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, for the period of

The City Record

18
two years beginning with the date
of execution of a contract, received
on November 19, 2009, under the
authority of Section 131.17 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to $234,050.00 (2% Net 30
Days), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Public
Service
is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost
of which shall be certified to the
contract in the sum of $50,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services whether more or
less than the estimated quantity as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified against
the contract.
Subcontractor

Mighty Mo’s Industrial
Supplier (FBE)

Percentage
Amount

5.054%
$13,200.00

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 181-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Collins Equipment Corporation for an estimated quantity of
fuel dispensing system maintenance
and repair, all items, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, for
the period of three years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on December 16, 2009,
under the authority of Section 131.17
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $300,000.00 (2% 10 Days
Net 30), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in the
sum of $80,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Collins Equipment Corporation is approved:
McTech, (CSB/MBE)
Earth Consulting, LTD, (CSB)

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 182-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Concord Road Equipment
Mfg., Inc., for an estimated quantity of four off road vehicles with end
dump bodies, and related equipment,
all items, including option #1 on one
vehicle, option #2 on all vehicles,
option #3 on three vehicles, vendor
option A on one vehicle, and vendor
options C-1 and C-2 on three vehicles, for the Division Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service, for the period of one year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on February 17, 2010, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 591-08, passed by
Cleveland City Council on July 2,
2008, as amended by Ordinance No.
1849-08, passed by Cleveland City
Council on January 26, 2009, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to $109,678.79
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in the
sum of $109,678.79.
The requirement contract shall further provide that the Contractor shall
furnish the remainder of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 183-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Perk Construction Company, Inc. for the public improvement
of the CUY-10-8.92 Lorain Resurfacing,
base bid plus Alternate No. 1, for the
Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service, received on April 14, 2010, under
the authority of Ordinance Nos. 245702, 319-09, 1786-09 and 367-10 passed by
the Cleveland City Council on March
10, 2003, March 16, 2009, December 7,
2009, and March 22, 2010, upon a unit
basis for the improvement, in the
aggregate amount of $1,444,795.75, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest
responsible bid, and the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Perk Co., Inc. for the above
authorized contract is approved:

698

May 19, 2010
McTech, Inc.
CSB/MBE — $110,872.00 — (7.674%)
Cuyahoga Supply & Tool
CSB/MBE — $137,922.00 — (9.546%)
PGT Construction
CSB/FBE — $165,500.00 — (11.455%)
Trafftech, Inc.
CSB — $78,206.00 — (5.413%)
Down To Earth
CSB/FBE — $8,300.00 — (0.574%)
DOT Drilling & Sawing
Other — $6,500.00 — (0.00%)
Solar Testing
Other — $4,500.00 — (0.00%)
Pavement Technology
Other — $33,513.00 — (0.00%)
The Shelly Company
Other — $587,432.00 — (0.00%)
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 184-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of R & R Truck Sales, Inc.,
for an estimated quantity of one cab
& chassis with end dump body, and
related equipment, all items, to include options #1, #2, and #3, for the
Division Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, for the
period of one year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on February 17, 2010, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 887-06,
passed by Cleveland City Council on
August 9, 2006, which on the basis of
the estimated quantity would amount
to $180,296.00 (Net), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
requested to enter into a requirement
contract for the goods and/or services,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in the sum
of $180,296.00.
The requirement contract shall further provide that the Contractor shall
furnish the remainder of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 185-10.
By Director Flask.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1876-06, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on March 12,
2007, the City of Cleveland, through
the Director of Public Safety, entered into an agreement with ACS Gov-

May 19, 2010
ernment Systems, Inc., City Contract
No. 67048, for a period of one year
with two options to renew for an
additional one year period, for maintenance and technical support services for the FIREHOUSE records
management system software, for
the Division of Fire, Department of
Public Safety, and by exercise of the
first option, a renewal; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with the
software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain the software, including but
not limited to, maintenance, repair,
upgrade, enhancements, and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with ACS
Government Systems Inc., to obtain
the professional maintenance and
technical support services necessary
to maintain the FIREHOUSE records
management software for one year
starting June 1, 2010, now; therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under division (e) of Section 181.102
C.O., the compensation to be paid for
maintenance and technical support
services to be performed under the
agreement with ACS Government
Systems Inc., is fixed at an amount
not to exceed $23,365.00.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 186-10.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on February 17,
2010 for an estimated quantity of
Snacks for the CACFP after school
program at the City of Cleveland
Recreation Centers,, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
under the authority of Ordinance of
No. 1592-09, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on November
30, 2009 are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 187-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 207676 passed October 25, 1976, the City
is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program (“Program”) according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 119-27-080 located at 8215 Central
Avenue in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have

The City Record
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcel for grand parent housing;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 119-27-080 located at
8215 Central Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 188-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 207676 passed October 25, 1976, the City
is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program (“Program”) according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 004-19-058 located at 2390 West
6th Street in Ward 3; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Nancy Corral, Trustee,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for construct a
house; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 3 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;

699

19
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland,
with
Nancy
Corral,
Trustee for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00419-058 located at 2390 West 6th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 189-10.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 207676 passed October 25, 1976, the City
is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program (“Program”) according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 142-25-079 and 142-25-082 located
at Lawndale Avenue in Ward 1; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Elizabeth Dukes, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcels for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 1 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcels are either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Elizabeth Dukes for
the sale and development of Perma-

The City Record

20
nent Parcel Nos. 142-25-079 and 14225-082 located at Lawndale Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$1.00 each, which amount is determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.
Resolution No. 190-10.
By Director Rush.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of R.W. Clark Company, Inc.,
for the public improvement for the
North Point Inn elevator modernization, base bid, for the Department of
Community Development, received on
March 31, 2010, under the authority
of Ordinance 531-07, passed April 23,
2007, and amended by Ordinance No.
1946-07, passed November 26, 2007,
and Ordinance No. 869-08, passed July
2, 2008, for a gross price for the improvement in the aggregate amount
of $389,618, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest responsible bidder, and
the Director of Community Development is authorized to enter into contract for the improvement with the
bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the employment of the following subcontractors by R.W. Clark
Company, Inc. is approved:
Subcontractor
CSB/MBE/FBE
Edmonds Elevator
CSB/FBE

C & K Services

Dentz Pointing

Resolution No. 191-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of R.W. Clark Company, Inc.,
for the public improvement of the
former Coast Guard Station building
roof replacement, base bid, for City
Planning, received on April 22, 2010,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
555-09, passed June 8, 2009, and
amended by Ordinance No. 618-10,
passed May 10, 2010, for a gross
price for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $515,225.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of City Planning is authorized to
enter into contract for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
R.W. Clark Company, Inc. is approved:
Amount
Percentage

Subcontractor
CSB/MBE/FBE
Work Best Electric
CSB/FBE

$

$

$

5,500.00
1.411%
2,160.00
.554%

2,845.00
.552%

M. Rivera Construction
CSB/MBE

$

8,000.00
1.553%

Insignia Graphic
CSB/MBE

$

1,342.00
.260%

LDH Painting
CSB/MBE

$

4,350.00
.844%

Price Builders, LLC
CSB/MBE

$ 36,000.00
6.98%

Amount
Percentage

$229,017.00
58.780%

May 19, 2010

Columbia Products

$117,000.00
22.71%

Strand Construction

$113,720.00
22.07%

T & F Systems, Inc.

$ 84,380.00
16.37%

D&R Carpet

$

1,404.00
.360%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.

R.J. Heating

$

6,800.00
1.745%

MARK MUSSON,
Acting Secretary

SRD Building Corporation

$

2,270.00
.582%

Ernie’s Electric
MBE

$ 16,593.00
4.259%

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________

Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$1.00 each, which amount is determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Hoose,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Directors
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim
Director Mahoney.

General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Com-

700

mission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2010
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 10-67: 2388 West 6th
Street (Ward 3)
Nancy Corral Trust, owner, appeals to erect a 25' x 60' two-story
frame, fee simple single family residence with an attached garage, proposed to be on a 38.6' x 90' lot in
a B1 Two-Family District; subject to
Section 327.02(e) for an approval
from Engineering and Construction
for lot consolidation, driveway, utility and catch basin drainage easements and Section 337.25(a) for a
Design Review hearing. The provisions
of
Sections
349.07(a)
and
349.07(c)(1)(2)(3)
require
paving
and drainage for the parking area,
one driveway for each 100 feet of
frontage, and not located less than
15 feet of the point of tangency of
its apron radius, and an apron
radius at curb of not less than 6 feet
without obstructing traffic per Engineering and Construction. Contrary
to Section 355.05(b) 3,474 square feet
is provided and a minimum lot size
of 4,800 square feet is required; a
gross floor area of 1,737 square feet
exceeds one-half the lot size of 1,729
square feet with a minimum lot
width of 38.6 feet contrary to 40 feet.
Inconsistent with Sections 357.04(a),
357.08(b)(1), 357.09(2)A, a front yard
setback of 5 feet and not 13 feet is
provided, with a rear yard depth of
22.3 feet and a rear wooden deck
providing 14 feet where 36 feet is
required; and a distance of 5 feet
where no building shall be erected
less than 10 feet from a main building on an adjacent lot, pursuant to
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-68: 2379 West 6th
Street (Ward 3)
Nancy Corral Trust, owner, appeals to erect a 25' x 60' two-story
frame, fee simple single family residence with an attached garage, proposed to be on a 38.6' x 100' lot in
a B1 Two-Family District; subject to
Section 327.02(e) for an approval
from Engineering and Construction
for lot consolidation, driveway, util-

May 19, 2010
ity and catch basin drainage easements and Section 337.25(a) for a
Design Review hearing. The provisions
of
Sections
349.07(a)
and
349.07(c)(1)(2)(3) require paving and
drainage for the parking area, one
driveway for each 100 feet of
frontage, and not located less than
15 feet of the point of tangency of
its apron radius, and an apron
radius at curb of not less than 6 feet
without obstructing traffic per Engineering and Construction. Contrary
to Section 355.05(b) 3,860 square feet
is provided and a minimum lot size
of 4,800 square feet is required; a
gross floor area of 1,930 square feet
exceeds one-half the lot size of 1,862
square feet with a minimum lot
width of 38.6 feet contrary to 40 feet.
Inconsistent with Sections 357.04(a),
357.08(b)(1), 357.09(2)A, a front yard
setback of 11.5 feet where 15 feet is
required and the existing building
setback is 21 feet; with a rear yard
depth of 25.7 feet where 36 feet is
required; and 7 feet 6 inches is provided between the dwelling and
garage where no building shall be
erected less than 10 feet from a
main building on an adjacent lot,
pursuant to the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-69: 2382 West 6th
Street (Ward 3)
Nancy Corral Trust, owner, appeals to erect a 25' x 60' two-story
frame, fee simple single family residence with an attached garage,
proposed to be on a 38.6' x 90' lot
in a B1 Two-Family District; subject to Section 327.02(e) for an
approval
from
Engineering
and
Construction for lot consolidation,
driveway, utility and catch basin
drainage easements and Section
337.25(a) for a Design Review hearing. The provisions of Sections
349.07(a)
and
349.07(c)(1)(2)(3)
require paving and drainage for the
parking area, one driveway for
each 100 feet of frontage, and not
located less than 15 feet of the
point of tangency of its apron
radius, and an apron radius at curb
of not less than 6 feet without
obstructing traffic per Engineering
and Construction. Contrary to Section 355.05(b) 3,474 square feet is
provided and a minimum lot size of
4,800 square feet is required; a
gross floor area of 1,737 square feet
exceeds one-half the lot size of
1,729 square feet with a minimum
lot width of 38.6 feet contrary to 40
feet.
Inconsistent
with
Sections
357.04(a), 357.08(b)(1), 357.09(2)A, a
front yard setback of 5 feet and not
13 feet is provided, with a rear yard
depth of 22.3 feet and a rear wooden deck providing 14 feet where 36
feet is required; and a distance of
5 feet where no building shall be
erected less than 10 feet from a
main building on an adjacent lot,
pursuant to the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-70: 2387 West 7th
Street (Ward 3)
Nancy Corral Trust, owner, appeals to erect a 25' x 60' two-story
frame, fee simple single family residence with an attached garage, proposed to be on a 38.6' x 100' lot in
a B1 Two-Family District; subject to
Section 327.02(e) for an approval

The City Record

21

from Engineering and Construction
for lot consolidation, driveway, utility and catch basin drainage easements and Section 337.25(a) for a
Design Review hearing. The provisions
of
Sections
349.07(a)
and
349.07(c)(1)(2)(3) require paving and
drainage for the parking area, one
driveway for each 100 feet of
frontage, and not located less than
15 feet of the point of tangency of
its apron radius, and an apron
radius at curb of not less than 6 feet
without obstructing traffic per Engineering and Construction. Contrary
to Section 355.05(b) 3,860 square feet
is provided and a minimum lot size
of 4,800 square feet is required; a
gross floor area of 1,930 square feet
exceeds one-half the lot size of 1,862
square feet with a minimum lot
width of 38.6 feet contrary to 40 feet.
Inconsistent with Sections 357.04(a),
357.08(b)(1), 357.09(2)A, a front yard
setback of 11.5 feet where 15 feet is
required and the existing building
setback is 21 feet; with a rear yard
depth of 25.7 feet where 36 feet is
required; and 7 feet 6 inches is provided between the dwelling and
garage where no building shall be
erected less than 10 feet from a
main building on an adjacent lot,
pursuant to the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-66: 3541 West 56th
Street (Ward 15)
Jean Nasr, owner, and Virginia
Reynolds, tenant, appeal to install
a 5' x 5' wheel chair lift within
the front yard setback of a 40' x
130' parcel in a B1 Two-Family
District, contrary to the required
yard spaces and permitted encroachments in the provisions of
Section 357.13 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-71: Violation Notice
— 2267 East 83rd Street (Ward 6)
Timothy Willis, owner, appeals
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances from
a Notice of Violation issued by the
Department of Building and Housing on April 8, 2010 for failure to
comply with Section 337.18(a) access
and maintenance of off-street parking spaces; Section 349.13(a) permitted garages and parking spaces in
residence districts; Section 337.23
accessory uses in residence district;
and Sections 357.14 and 349.13(c)(6)
for permitted yard encroachments as
stated in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-74: Used Automobile
Storage License — 6811 Carnegie
Avenue (Ward 5)
David Jurek, d.b.a. Friendship
Auto Sales appeals under Section 766 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances from
a decision dated April 21, 2010 by
the City of Cleveland Division of Assessments and Licenses to deny a
Used Motor Vehicles Storage License,
as a result of violations determined
upon review of the license application by the Department of Building
and Housing.
Secretary

701

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 17, 2010
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, May 17,
2010, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 10-58: 11003 Superior
Avenue
Maher Suleiman appealed to expand use of a store to include a
drive through and an auto detailing
shop proposed to be on consolidated
parcels in a Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 10-60: 16109 Woodbury
Avenue
Steve Evans appealed to install
161 linear feet of 4 foot high solid
wood fence set back less than 4 feet
from the side street property line in
a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 10-32: 1945 East 97th
Street
Cleveland Clinic appealed to construct a parking lot on acreage
located in zoning for Multi-Family
and General Retail Business Districts.
The following appeals were Dismissed:
Calendar No. 10-57: Notice of Violation — 5792 Portage Avenue.
Calendar No. 10-40: Coin Operated
Pool/Billiard Room License —
2901-09 Detroit Avenue.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 10-59: 1293 West 9th
Street postponed to June 21, 2010.
Calendar No. 09-233: 7310 Fleet Avenue postponed to July 12, 2010.
The following appeals heard by the
Board on May 10, 2010 were adopted
and approved on May 17, 2010.
Calendar No. 10-52: 5819 Bridge Avenue
Lawrence Harris appealed to park
in the front yard of a parcel in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 10-53: 908 Fruit Avenue
Shirley Larrison appealed to erect
a ramp at the rear door area of a
two family dwelling in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 10-54: 3999 Brookside
Boulevard
William Scott Huebler appealed to
install a 6 foot high wooden privacy fence along the side street yard
of an irregular shaped corner parcel
n a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 10-55: 11310 Magnolia
Drive
Case Western Reserve University
appealed from the limitation of 30
days duration to install a temporary
tent for events that occur from April
20, to October 20, 2010.

The City Record

22
Calendar No. 10-56: 1901 Ford Drive
Case Western Reserve University
appealed from the limitation of 30
days duration to install a temporary
tent for events that occur from April
20, to October 20, 2010.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
May 12, 2010
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-33-09.
RE: Appeal of Karas Properties,
Inc., Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 4900 West
150th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION, dated December 22, 2008 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation Notice was properly issued
to both the tenant and the landlord.
The property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-423-09.
RE: Appeal of George Roganishi,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit
Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 3197 Louisianna
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated November 10, 2009 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal and to REMAND the property to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-431-09.
RE: Appeal of Beverly A. Banks,
Owner of One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence Two Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 11229 Continental Avenue
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —

MAIN STRUCTURE, dated November 10, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property
at
11229
Continental
Avenue to the Department of Building and Housing for supervision and
any required further action, noting
the lack of attendance by the Appellant, and the condition of the property described by the photographs
and testimony of the inspector.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-432-09.
RE: Appeal of Ossie Hill, Owner
of Two Dwelling Units Two-Family
Residence Two and One/half Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 11709 Iowa
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated August 4, 2009 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant fourteen (14) days in
which to fix any conditions that are
relevant to the sanitary conditions,
health conditions, safety conditions,
and welfare of the people, such as
a valve: The Appellant is granted
thirty (30) days in which to obtain
permits and ninety (90) days in
which to begin substantial abatement of the violations on the property. The property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-438-09.
RE: Appeal of Curtis King, Owner
of One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence Two and One/half Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 11712 Shadeland
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated April 22, 2009 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-438-09 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*

*

*

Docket A-439-09.
RE: Appeal of Greater Cleveland
Habitat for Humanity, Owner of the
MXD Mixed Uses — Multiple Uses
In One Building Six (6) Story

702

May 19, 2010
Masonry Walls/Wood floors Property located on the premises known
as 6920 Union Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated December 4,
2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, regarding the
Department of Building and Housing issues, a motion is in order at
this time to REMAND the property
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Regarding
the Division of Fire, a motion is in
order at this time to require that
inspections for security be increased
to daily, and to grant the Appellant
thirty (30) days in which to bring
the building up to a broom swept
condition regarding combustibles.
The property is REMANDED to the
Division of Fire for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-440-09.
RE: Appeal of Ronald D. Pace,
Owner of Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two and One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 1046 East 141st
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 2,
2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain all permits and six (6)
months in which to abate the violations; noting that with satisfactory
progress, the time can be extended
by the inspector. The property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-441-09.
RE: Appeal of Ronnie C. Roy,
Owner of Two Dwelling units TwoFamily Residence Two and One/half
Story Wood/Frame/Siding/Masonry
Veneer Property located on the
premises
known
as
6910
Clark
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 2,
2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which

The City Record

May 19, 2010
to continue and complete abatement
of the violations. The property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-442-09.
RE: Appeal of Lennox Enterprizes
Unlimited, Owner of One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
and One/half Story Frame Property
located on the premises known as
3717 East 144th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated November 11,
2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 3717 East 144th Street to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any required further action, denying appeals for further time to correct the
violations. Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-443-09.
RE:
Appeal
of
James
Stuart,
Owner of Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two and One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises
known
as
11107
Ada
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated September 25, 2009 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the request for an extension of time and
to REMAND the property to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action, noting the condition
of the property described both by
the photographs and the testimony
of the inspector. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-444-09.
RE: Appeal of Edward R. Hayes
Jr., Owner of Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Wood/Frame/Siding/Masonry Veneer Property located on the premises known as 15900
Corsica Avenue from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated May 15, 2009 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).

BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until July 8, 2010 in which
to correct the violations. The property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-445-09.
RE: Appeal of Bob Boyd, Owner of
Three Dwelling Units Three-Family
Residence Two and One/half Story
Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 3568 East 144th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated September 10, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the appeal for additional time and to REMAND the property to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action, noting the lack of attendance by the Appellant and the condition of the property. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-446-09.
RE: Appeal of International Specialty Produce, Inc., Owner of Property located on the premises known
as 3800 Woodland Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE
CODE, dated June 4, 2009 of the
Chief of the Division of Fire, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date. The docket
will be rescheduled in four (4)
weeks (June 9, 2010.)
*

*

*

Docket A-448-09.
RE: Appeal of Lust Nightclub,
Owner of the A-2 Assembly — Nite
Clubs, Restaurants Property located
on the premises known as 1303 West
6th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — NO PERMIT, dated October 26, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action required by the Board.
The Appellant should appeal to the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
*

*

*

Docket A-449-09.
RE: Appeal of Deloris Oliver,
Owner of One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence Two Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 1766 Avalon Road from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTE-

703

23
RIOR MAINTENANCE, dated December 9, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant four (4) months in which
to abate the violations. The property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-450-09.
RE: Appeal of Christopher S. Tourtellot, Owner of One Dwelling Unit
Single-Family Residence One and
One/half Story Property located on
the premises known as 11205 Greenwich Avenue from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated September 29, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to obtain permits and complete
abatement of the violations. The
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-1-10.
RE: Appeal of Curtis S. Hunt,
Owner of Residential Property located on the premises known as 5701
Diamond Avenue from a VOIDED
PERMIT, dated December 23, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-1-10 have been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
26, 2010.
*

*

*

Docket A-2-10.
RE:
Appeal
of
Karen
Hasan
Walker, Owner of Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two
and One/half Story Frame Property
located on the premises known as
2793 East 127th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated December 9, 2009 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-2-10 have been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
26, 2010.

The City Record

24
Docket A-3-10.
RE: Appeal of Raymond Kelly,
Owner of One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence One & One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 3466 East 113th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 1, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and abate the violations. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-4-10.
RE: Appeal of SI Harb, Owner of
the M Mercantile — Retail Shops,
Carry-out
Food
Shops
One
and
One/half Story Masonry Property
located on the premises known as
8400 Euclid Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated December 08,
2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-4-10 have been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
26, 2010.
*

*

*

Docket A-9-10.
RE: Appeal of Helen M. Goczo,
Owner of One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence Two and One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 2837 East 126th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 10, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant three (3) months in which
to obtain permits and abate the violations. The property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-10-10.
RE:
Appeal
of
Iqbal
Athwal,
Owner of the Residential Property
located on the premises known as
3612 East 117th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated November 12,

2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-2-10 have been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
26, 2010.
*

*

*

Docket A-11-10.
RE: Appeal of Kandis Morrissette,
Owner of Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two and One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 2853 East 127th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 10, 2009 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations. The property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-146-10.
RE: Appeal of Katherine Wolf
C/O Robert Neitzel, Owner / Contractor of the One Dwelling Unit
Single-Family Residence One Story
Garage — Detached; Wood Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 15708 Leigh Ellen Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
POOR WORKMANSHIP, dated July
15, 2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
violation notice was properly issued,
that the slab was not built according to the submitted plans, notwithstanding a letter has been submitted by the engineer stating that the
slab that was built will perform
properly; and to require that the
Appellant submit a sketch of what
was built for review by the Building Department to see if it conforms
with the codified requirement for
the City of Cleveland. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):

704

May 19, 2010
A-279-09—Bojacks’s Meat & Poultry, Inc.
A-416-09—Juan Cruz.
A-417-09—John Jackson.
A-419-09—Raymond Watkins.
A-420-09—Christopher Chavers.
A-421-09—Keith Duffield.
A-422-09—Joseph L. Scott.
A-425-09—Grace Hospital.
A-426-09—Grace Hospital.
A-427-09—Jose Soto.
A-429-09—Cuyahoga Real Estate,
LLC.
A-434-09 — E. 79th Redevelopment
Ltd.
A-435-09—Rockefeller Building Associates.
A-437-09—Cecil Witcher.
A-88-10—Giuseppe (Joe) Tieri.
A-115-10 — The K&D Group, 668
Atrium US.
A-147-10—Nick Vroutos.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
April 28, 2010
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, May 26, 2010
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, May 26, 2010, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 213-10.
By Council Member Miller.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land fronting on East
140th Street south of I-90 and north
of Kelso Avenue from Local Retail
Business to Residence Office; and
changing the Use and Area Districts
of land located at the southwest corner of Diana and E. 140th to Two
Family Residential and a ‘B’ Area

May 19, 2010
District (Map Change No. 2297 Sheet
No. 7).
Ord. No. 461-10.
By Council Member Kelley.
An ordinance expanding the Old
Brooklyn Design Review District to
include lands south of Henritze Avenue along Pearl Road and State
Road north of Leopold Avenue (Map
Change No. 2301, Sheet Number 2).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
May 12, 2010 and May 19, 2010

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

The City Record
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, MAY 24, 2010 AT 10:30
A.M. THE CLEVELAND CITY
HALL,
DIVISION
OF
PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM
128, 601 LAKESIDE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
May 12, 2010 and May 19, 2010
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9, 2010
File No. 89-2010 — Purchase of
Transformers and Accessories,
for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 129.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, MAY 21, 2010 AT 11:30
A.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, JUNE 4, 2010
File No. 92-2010 — Janitorial Supplies (Re-Bid), for the Various
Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Section 181.101, of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976.

File No. 90-2010 — Large and Special Pinion, Ring and Worm
Gears, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities,
as authorized by Section 129.25
of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, MAY 24, 2010 AT 2:00 P.M.
THE CARL B. STOKES PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
ENGINEERING CONFERENCE ROOM,
5TH FLOOR, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 91-2010 — Disposal of
Catch Basin Debris, for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities,
as authorized by Section 129.25
of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
WEDNESDAY, MAY 26, 2010 AT
10:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
RED CONFERENCE, ROOM, 12302
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.
May 12, 2010 and May 19, 2010
THURSDAY, JUNE 10, 2010
File No. 84-2010 — Cleaning and
Cement Mortar Lining of Distribution Main in Effingham Boulevard in the City of Euclid, Ohio,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 192807, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 10,
2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
($100.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER ONLY (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).

705

25
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, MAY 24, 2010 AT 9:00 A.M.
THE CARL B. STOKES PUBLIC
UTILITIES BUILDING, AUDITORIUM — 1ST FLOOR, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
File No. 85-2010 — Sewer Test Tee
Inspection, Installation and Snaking, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 541.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
TUESDAY, MAY 25, 2010 AT 10:00
A.M. THE DIVISION OF WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL, RED CONFERENCE, ROOM, 12302 KIRBY
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44108.
May 12, 2010 and May 19, 2010
THURSDAY, JUNE 17, 2010
File No. 88-2010 — Diesel Emission
Reduction Systems for Vehicles
and Equipment Including Installation, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
1590-09, passed by the Council of
the City of November 30, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 21, 2010 AT 10:00 A.M.,
THE DEPARTMENT OF PORT
CONTROL, CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT’S CENTRAL
RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.
May 12, 2010 and May 19, 2010
FRIDAY, JUNE 18, 2010
File No. 86-2010 — Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for Cleveland Police Department/SWAT,
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 639-08,
passed by the Council of the City
of June 2, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, MAY 24, 2010 AT 3:00 P.M.
THE
HOMELAND
SECURITY,
205 WEST ST. CLAIR AVENUE,
ROOM 306, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44113.
File No. 87-2010 — MSA Self Contained Breathing (SCBA) for the
Cleveland Police Department/SWAT,
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 639-08,
passed by the Council of the City
of June 2, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, MAY 24, 2010 AT 4:00 P.M.
THE
HOMELAND
SECURITY,
205 WEST ST. CLAIR AVENUE,
ROOM 306, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44113.
May 12, 2010 and May 19, 2010

The City Record

26
FRIDAY, JUNE 11, 2010
File No. 97-2010 — Fire Hydrants
and Fire Hydrant Parts, for the
Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Section 129.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 27, 2010 AT
10:30
A.M.
THE
CARL
B.
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
AUDITORIUM
—
1ST FLOOR, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
May 19, 2010 and May 26, 2010
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 16, 2010
File No. 93-2010 — 2010-2011 Contractual Repair of Water Mains,
Fire Hydrants, Valves, Service
Connections and Appurtenances
Area-A,
for
the
Division
of
Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1538-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 23, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 27, 2010 AT
2:30 P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
AUDITORIUM — 1ST FLOOR,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 94-2010 — 2010-2011 Contractual Repair of Water Mains,
Fire Hydrants, Valves, Service
Connections and Appurtenances
for
the
Division
of
Area-B,
Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1538-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 23, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 27, 2010 AT
2:30 P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
AUDITORIUM — 1ST FLOOR,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
May 19, 2010 and May 26, 2010
THURSDAY, JUNE 17, 2010
File No. 95-2010 — 2010-2011 Contractual Repair of Water Mains,
Fire Hydrants, Valves, Service
Connections and Appurtenances
Area-C, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
1538-09, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, November
23, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANMEETING
DATORY
PRE-BID
THURSDAY, MAY 27, 2010 AT
2:30 P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
AUDITORIUM — 1ST FLOOR,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 96-2010 — 2010-2011 Contractual Repair of Water Mains,
Fire Hydrants, Valves, Service

Connections and Appurtenances
Area-D, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
1538-09, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, November
23, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANMEETING
DATORY
PRE-BID
THURSDAY, MAY 27, 2010 AT
2:30 P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
AUDITORIUM — 1ST FLOOR, 1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
May 19, 2010 and May 26, 2010

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
____________
Res. No. 624-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution supporting the goals and ideals for the 2010
Census and disseminating 2010 Census information to encourage participation; acknowledging the efforts
of the City Planning Commission in
working together with City Council
and other partners to achieve an
accurate and complete count; and
encouraging people in our community to participate in events and initiatives that will raise the overall
awareness of the 2010 Census and
increase participation among all
populations.
Whereas, the U.S. Census Bureau
is required by the U.S. Constitution
to conduct a count of the population
and provides a historic opportunity
to help shape the foundation of our
society and play an active role in
American democracy;
Whereas, the City of Cleveland is
committed to ensuring every resident is counted;
Whereas, more than $400 billion
per year in federal and state funding is allocated to communities, and
decisions are made on matters of
national and local importance based,
in part, on census data, including
health care, community development,
housing, education, transportation,
social services, employment and much
more;
Whereas, census data help determine how many seats each state
will have in the U.S. House of Representatives and often is used for
the redistricting of state legislatures, county and city councils and
voting districts;
Whereas, the 2010 Census creates
hundreds
of
thousands
of
jobs
across the nation;
Whereas, every Census Bureau
worker takes a lifetime oath to protect confidentiality, and the Census
Bureau ensures that the data identifying respondents or their household not be released or shared for
72 years;
Whereas, a united voice from business, government, community-based
and faith-based organizations, educators, media and others will allow
the 2010 Census message to reach a
broader audience, providing trusted
advocates who can spark positive
conversations about the 2010 Census;

706

May 19, 2010
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the goals and ideals for the
2010 Census and will disseminate
2010 Census information to encourage
participation; acknowledging the efforts of the City Planning Commission in working together with City
Council and other partners to achieve
an accurate and complete count; and
encourages people in our community to participate in events and initiatives that will raise the overall
awareness of the 2010 Census and increase participation among all populations.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to the
US Census Bureau, the City Planning
Commission and Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 625-10.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
4281 West 130th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C2 Liquor Permit at Walgreen Co.,
DBA Walgreen’s, #03234, 4281 West
130th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44135,
Permanent Number 935794103234; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure pro-

May 19, 2010
viding for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Walgreen Co., DBA
Walgreen’s, #03234, 4281 West 130th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent Number 935794103234; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 626-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 1313
West 6th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from Albi, Inc.,
DBA West Sixth Market, 1313 West
6th Street, 1st floor and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
00895360005 to Spaci, Inc., DBA West
Sixth Market, 1st floor and patio,
1313 West Sixth Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
8398803; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement

The City Record
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Albi, Inc., DBA
West Sixth Market, 1313 West 6th
Street, 1st floor and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
00895360005 to Spaci, Inc., DBA West
Sixth Market, 1st floor and patio,
1313 West Sixth Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
8398803; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 627-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 1382 West 9th Street, 1st
floor.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
La Bodega Cleveland OH, LLC, Suite
100 & patio, 1382 West 9th Street, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 4949255 to Mosaica
Grill, LLC, Suite 100 & patio, 1382
West 9th Street, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
6186947; and

707

27
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from La
Bodega Cleveland OH, LLC, Suite
100 & patio, 1382 West 9th Street, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 4949255 to Mosaica
Grill, LLC, Suite 100 & patio, 1382
West 9th Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
6186947; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

28
Res. No. 628-10.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 9108
Superior Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Felton Smith,
9108 Superior Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44106,
Permanent Number 8277094 to Tracy
Johnson, DBA Superior Deli, 9108
Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44106, Permanent Number 4337539;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Felton Smith,
9108 Superior Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44106,
Permanent Number 8277094 to Tracy
Johnson, DBA Superior Deli, 9108
Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44106, Permanent Number 4337539;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two

The City Record
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1076-09.
By Council Members Conwell, Dow
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 623.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 791-09,
passed July 1, 2009, relating to criminal trespass upon on vacant land of
another, or the land or premises of
another on which a vacant and vandalized building is situated.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 623.04 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 791-09, passed July 1,
2009, is amended to read as follows:
Section 623.04 Criminal Trespass
(a) No person, without privilege
to do so, shall do any of the following:
(1) Knowingly enter or remain on
the land or premises of another;
(2) Knowingly enter or remain on
the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted
to certain persons, purposes, modes
or hours, when the offender knows
he is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that
regard.
(3) Recklessly enter or remain
on the land or premises of another,
as to which notice against unauthorized
access
or
presence
is
given by actual communication to
the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to
come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other
enclosure manifestly designed to
restrict access;
(4) Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified
to do so by the owner or occupant,
or the agent or servant of either;
(5) Knowingly enter or remain in
any vacant and vandalized building
or structure, including, but not limited to, a formerly occupied residential dwelling or dwelling unit,
without having on his person the
written permission of the owner of
such structure granting permission
to be in any such building or structure. This paragraph does not apply

708

May 19, 2010
to governmental officers or employees when carrying out a lawful governmental function.
(6) After first being warned to
desist, knowingly enter or remain
on vacant land of another, or outdoors on the land or premises of
another on which any vacant and
vandalized building or structure is
situated, including, but not limited
to, a formerly occupied residential
dwelling or dwelling unit, without
having on his person a writing such
as, by way of example only, a contract or work order for work at the
land or premises, or a writing
signed by the owner, lessee or other
person entitled to possession of the
land or premises, that shows that
the person has a lawful reason to
enter or remain there.
(b) It is no defense to a charge
under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled or in custody of a public
agency.
(c) It is no defense to a charge
under this section that the offender
was authorized to enter or remain
on the land or premises involved
when such authorization was secured by deception.
(d) Whoever violates divisions
(a)(1), (2), (3) and (4) of this section is guilty of criminal trespass, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(e)
Whoever
violates
division
(a)(5) of this section is guilty of
trespassing on a vacant and vandalized building, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(f)
Whoever
violates
division
(a)(6) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor on the first
offense and a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree on the second and any
subsequent offense.
(g) As used in this section, “land
or premises” includes any land,
building, structure of place belonging to, controlled by or in custody
of another, and any separate enclosure or room, or portion thereof. (RC
2911.21)
Section 2. That existing Section
623.04 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 791-09, passed July
1, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1715-09.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Polensek, Dow, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 559.13 and 559.14 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
109-56, passed February 11, 1957, relating to the Cultural Gardens to add the
Bruot Gate and Walk to the Shake-

May 19, 2010
speare Garden and to designate the
Croatian Garden.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 559.13 and
559.14 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 109-56, passed February 11, 1957, are amended as follows:
Section 559.13
Shakespeare Garden and Bruot Gate and Walk
(a) Shakespeare Garden. That portion of Rockefeller Parkway lying
east of the upper drive, between
North Blvd and East 98th Street
shall be designated the Shakespeare
Garden.
(b) Bruot Gate and Walk. Beginning at a point in the westerly line
of the upper drive at its point of
intersection with the westerly prolongation of the main axis of the
Shakespeare Garden; thence southerly along the westerly line of the
upper drive 35 feet to a point; thence
westerly by a line which is parallel
with said westerly prolongation of
the main axis of the Shakespeare
Garden and 35.00 feet southerly by
rectangular measurement therefrom,
about 325 feet to the easterly line of
the lower drive; thence northerly
along the easterly line of the lower
drive about 60 feet to the southwesterly corner of the Hungarian
Garden; thence easterly along the
southerly line of the Hungarian,
(which southerly line is 25 feet
northerly by rectangular measurement and parallel to the westerly
prolongation of the main axis of the
Shakespeare Garden) 326.30 feet to
an iron pipe in the westerly line of
the upper drive; thence southerly
along the westerly line of the upper
drive 25.00 feet to the place of beginning.
Section 559.14 Croatian Garden
Beginning in the westerly line of
the upper drive at a point located
35.00 feet southerly by rectangular
measurement from its point of intersection with the westerly prolongation of the main axis of the Shakespeare
Garden;
thence
southerly
along the westerly line of the upper
drive about 186.8 feet to an iron pipe
in the northeasterly corner of the
Hebrew Garden; thence westerly
along the northerly line of the
Hebrew Garden 271.54 feet to an
iron pipe in the easterly line of the
lower drive; thence northerly along
the easterly line of the lower drive
about 283.3 feet to a point located
60.00 feet southerly by rectangular
measurement from the southerly
line
of
the
Hungarian
Garden;
thence easterly by a line which is
parallel with the southerly line of
the Hungarian Garden and distant
60.00 feet southerly by rectangular
measurement therefrom, (which line
is also 35 feet southerly by rectangular measurement and parallel to
the westerly prolongation of the
main axis of the Shakespeare Garden) about 326 feet to the westerly
line of the upper drive and the place
of beginning.

The City Record
Section 2. That existing Sections
559.13 and 559.14 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 109-56,
passed February 11, 1957, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 12-10.
By Council Members Conwell,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 395.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02,
passed February 3, 2003, relating to
unnecessary fire alarms and charges.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 395.02 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003, is amended to read as
follows:
Section 395.02 Unnecessary Alarms;
Charges
(a) Upon the occurrence of a second unnecessary alarm at a particular location in a given calendar
year, the Fire Chief shall cause a
letter to be sent via regular U.S.
mail to the alarm system location
stating that the person(s) responsible for the alarm system as identified in division (c) may be invoiced
under the authority of this section
for reimbursement of a portion of
the costs of responding to the third
and any subsequent unnecessary
alarm.
(b) If more than two (2) unnecessary alarms occur at a particular
location in a given calendar year,
then the Fire Chief shall invoice the
person(s) responsible for the alarm
system as identified in division (c)
of this section in the sum of one
hundred thirty dollars ($130.00) for
reimbursement of a portion of the
costs of responding to the third and
any subsequent unnecessary alarm.
The charges shall be due and payable on receipt of an invoice, except
that the charges shall be suspended
pending the outcome of any hearing
conducted under Section 395.03, or
any appeal conducted under Section
395.04.
(c) As used in this section and
division (k) of Section 395.01, the
“person(s) responsible for the alarm
system” means each owner and
leaseholder, if any, of the property
or properties served by the alarm

709

29
system, and the person(s) shall be
jointly and severally liable for the
charges assessed under this section.
(d) As used in this section, a “particular location” means a property or
a group of contiguous or noncontiguous properties, whether or not
under common ownership, which are
under a common street address, both
as to house or building number and
street name.
Section 2. That Section 395.02 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 204-10.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 605.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1631-05,
passed March 20, 2006, relating to
making false alarms.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 605.07 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1631-05, passed March
20, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 605.07 Making False Alarms
(a) No person shall do any of the
following:
(1) Initiate or circulate a report
or warning of an alleged or impending fire, explosion, crime or other
catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to
cause public inconvenience or alarm;
(2) Knowingly cause a false
alarm of fire or other emergency to
be transmitted to or within any
organization, public or private, for
dealing with emergencies involving
a risk of physical harm to persons
or property;
(3) Report to any law enforcement
agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing
that such offense did not occur;
(4) Report a medical emergency,
injury or condition knowing that
none exists.
(b) This section does not apply:
(1) to any person conducting an
authorized fire or emergency drill;
or
(2) if the violation results in economic harm of five hundred dollars
($500.00) or more; or

30
(3) if a violation of this section
pertains to a purported, threatened
or actual use of a weapon of mass
destruction.
(c) Whoever violates this section
is guilty of making false alarms, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(RC 2917.32)
Section 2. That existing Section
605.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1631-05, passed
March 20, 2006, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 261-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of water
revenue obligations in the maximum
principal amount of $50,000,000 to
fund costs of acquiring automated
water meter reading infrastructure
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, the City has determined
to deploy a system to automatically
collect water meter readings and
other data related to water use and
for that purpose it is necessary for
the City to acquire equipment, install software and integrate the
advanced water meter infrastructure
with the existing billing and security systems in the Division of
Water (the “Project”);
Whereas, the City is authorized
under Article XVIII of the Constitution of the state of Ohio and the
Charter
of
the
City
to
make
improvements to the Waterworks
System and to borrow money to pay
costs of those improvements, subject
to compliance with the covenants of
the City in the Amended and Restated Trust Indenture, effective as of
October 5, 2001, as supplemented and
amended from time to time, between
the City and U.S. Bank National
Association, as trustee (the “Bond
Indenture”), securing the City’s outstanding Water Revenue Bonds and
any additional Water Revenue Bonds
issued from time to time (collectively, the “Bonds”);
Whereas, this Council has determined that it is necessary to issue
obligations to provide interim funding for the Project as provided in
this ordinance (the “Obligations”) in
anticipation of definitive financing
to be provided by additional Bonds
to be issued under the Bond Indenture to retire the Obligations and to
fund other improvements to the
Waterworks System; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety in that this ordinance is required to be immediate-

The City Record
ly effective to permit the issuance
and sale of the Obligations to fund
contracts for the acquisition of the
Project for the operation of the
Waterworks System and thereby
provide for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Obligations in
an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed Fifty Million Dollars
($50,000,000) to pay a portion of the
costs of the Project, including costs
of acquiring meters, registers, computer hardware and software and
other equipment, fees and expenses
for technology and other professional services for the installation of the
equipment and software and its integration with existing billing and
security systems, funding any capitalized
interest
and
paying
all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the Obligations.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Obligations
shall be issued pursuant to the Article XVIII of the Ohio Constitution,
the Charter of the City, and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1. The Obligations shall be
payable from and secured by the net
revenues of the Waterworks System
in the Additions and Improvements
Fund established under the Bond
Indenture on a basis subordinate to
the Bonds under the Bond Indenture.
The Obligations shall not constitute
“Bonds” under the Bond Indenture.
The principal of the Obligations
may not be accelerated if any Bonds
are outstanding under the Bond
Indenture unless those outstanding
Bonds have been accelerated.
Section 3. Rate Covenant. So long
as Obligations are outstanding, the
City covenants, subject to all applicable requirements and restrictions
imposed by law, that at all times it
will prescribe and charge such rates
and charges for the services of the
Waterworks System, and will so
restrict operating expenses of the
Waterworks System as shall result
in net revenues of the Waterworks
System in each year at least equal
to amounts required to comply with
its covenants under the Bond Indenture and to pay the principal of and
interest on the Obligations in the
then current year (less any interest
funded from proceeds of the Obligations).
Section 4. Terms of the Obligations. (a) Amount, Designation, Dating, Denominations. The Obligations
shall be issued in the principal
amount, which shall not exceed the
amount stated in Section 1, and
shall bear interest from their date
until the principal amount is paid at
the rate or rates per year and
payable on the dates specified in the
certificate of award providing for
the final terms of the Obligations
and the sale of the Obligations in
accordance with this Ordinance (the
“Certificate of Award”). The Obligations shall be issued in fully registered form and shall be designated,
numbered and dated as determined
by the Director of Finance and set
forth in the Certificate of Award.
The Obligations may be delivered in

710

May 19, 2010
book-entry form, in which case the
Obligations shall be registered in
the name of The Depository Trust
Company or its nominee (together
with any successor securities depository, the “Depository”), as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository) without further action by
the City as provided in the Registrar Agreement authorized in Section 6. The Obligations shall be
issued in such denominations (“Authorized Denominations”) as are
stated in the Certificate of Award to
be authorized denominations. The
Obligations shall be signed by the
Mayor and the Director of Finance,
provided that either or both of those
signatures may be a facsimile. The
Registrar identified in Section 6
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Obligations.
(b) Interest Rates. If the Obligations bear interest at fixed rates of
interest, the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Obligation to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed four percent (4%) per year. The Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award, based on the written advice of a financial advisor,
that the City’s best interests will be
served by causing all or a portion
of the Obligations to be obligations
bearing interest at variable rates. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the Director of Finance
shall specify in the Certificate of
Award the method and procedure by
which the variable rate of interest
to be borne by the variable rate
Obligations shall be determined,
whether by reference to a market
index, by a remarketing agent or
otherwise; provided that the variable rate Obligations shall not bear
interest at a rate in excess of twenty-five percent (25%) per year. Provision shall also be made in the Certificate of Award for an assumed
interest rate with respect to variable
rate Obligations for purposes of
complying with the rate covenant.
Holders of variable rate Obligations
may be given the right to tender
their variable rate Obligations for
purchase by the City at the times,
on the terms, and subject to the conditions set forth in the Certificate of
Award and any tender agreement. If
the Director of Finance designates
any Obligations as variable rate
Obligations, and if the holders of
the variable rate Obligations are to
be entitled to tender the variable
rate Obligations for purchase, then
the Director of Finance shall also
designate
in
the
Certificate
of
Award for those variable rate Obligations the tender agent or agents
and
the
remarketing
agent
or
agents, which designations shall be
based on the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a financial advisor, that the parties so designated
possess the requisite resources and
experience to provide the services
required of them and that the terms
on which the designated parties
have agreed to provide such ser-

May 19, 2010
vices are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into agreements
in connection with the delivery of
the variable rate Obligations, and
from time to time thereafter so long
as the variable rate Obligations are
outstanding, with providers of Credit Support Instruments (as defined
in Section 10), tender agents (which
may be the Registrar provided for
in Section 6), remarketing agents,
and others as may be determined by
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a financial
advisor, to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, permitting holders the right
of tender, providing for liquidity or
credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Obligations upon
tender for purchase or at maturity
or upon prior redemption, and providing for the repayment by the
City of any amounts drawn under
any Credit Support Instrument.
(c) Maturity; Principal Payments;
Mandatory Redemption. The Obligations shall mature in the years and
principal amounts set forth in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
the final maturity date of the Obligations shall be no later than December 1, 2015. The Obligations stated
to mature in any year may be issued
as serial Obligations or as term
Obligations payable prior to stated
maturity pursuant to sinking fund
redemption
(the
“Term
Obligations”). The Director of Finance
shall determine in the Certificate of
Award whether any of the Obligations shall be issued as Term Obligations, any dates (the “Mandatory
Redemption Dates”) on which the
principal amount of the Term Obligations shall be payable pursuant to
mandatory
sinking
fund
installments rather than at stated maturity and the amount of principal to be
paid on each Mandatory Redemption
Date (the “Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
If any of the Obligations are
issued as Term Obligations, the
Term Obligations shall be redeemed
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements at a
redemption price of 100 percent of
the principal amount redeemed, plus
interest accrued to the redemption
date, on the Mandatory Redemption
Dates. The aggregate of the moneys
to be deposited with the Registrar
for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Obligations
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Obligations payable on those
dates pursuant to the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements (less the amount of any credit as provided in the Registrar
Agreement).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar for cancellation Term Obligations in any
aggregate principal amount and to
receive a credit against the then
current or any subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption obligation) of the
City, as specified by the Director of
Finance, for Term Obligations stat-

The City Record
ed to mature on the same principal
payment date as the Term Obligations so delivered. That option shall
be exercised by the City on or
before the 15th day preceding any
Mandatory Redemption Date with
respect to which the City wishes to
obtain a credit, by furnishing the
Registrar a certificate, signed by
the Director of Finance, setting
forth the extent of the credit to be
applied with respect to the then current or any subsequent Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement for Term Obligations stated to
mature on the same principal payment date. If the certificate is not
timely furnished to the Registrar,
the current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) shall not be reduced. A
credit against the then current or
any subsequent Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation), as specified by the
Director of Finance, also shall be
received by the City for any Term
Obligations which prior thereto have
been redeemed (other than through
the operation of the applicable
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements) or purchased for
cancellation and canceled by the
Registrar, to the extent not applied
theretofore as a credit against any
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement, for Term Obligations stated to mature on the same
principal payment date as the Term
Obligations so redeemed or purchased and canceled.
Each Term Obligation so delivered, or previously redeemed, or purchased and canceled, shall be credited by the Registrar at 100% of the
principal amount thereof against the
then current or subsequent Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements (and corresponding
mandatory redemption obligations),
as specified by the Director of
Finance, for Term Obligations stated to mature on the same principal
payment date as the Term Obligations so delivered, redeemed or purchased and canceled.
The
(d)
Optional
Redemption.
Obligations
may
be
subject
to
redemption prior to maturity by and
at the option of the City, in whole
or in part in Authorized Denominations, on the dates and at the
redemption prices determined by the
Director of Finance in the Certificate of Award, which may include
payment of a make whole premium.
Based on the written advice of a
financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the
best interests of the City for some
or all of the Obligations not to be
callable prior to their stated maturity.
If optional redemption of Term
Obligations at a redemption price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any Mandatory Redemption Date applicable to those Term
Obligations, the Term Obligations,
or portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Term Obligations of the same matu-

711

31
rity to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements. Term Obligations to be redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
shall be redeemed only upon written
notice from the Director of Finance
to the Registrar. That notice shall
specify the redemption date and the
principal amount of each maturity
of Term Obligations to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least 45 days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Bond Registrar.
If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City
may have the option to purchase
any Obligation which is redeemable
by optional redemption at a purchase
price
not
less
than
the
redemption price that would be
payable if that Obligation were
called for optional redemption on
the date of the proposed purchase.
(e) Redemption Procedures. If
fewer than all of the outstanding
Obligations are called for optional
redemption at one time and Obligations of more than one maturity are
then outstanding, the Obligations
that are called shall be Obligations
of the maturity or maturities selected by the City. If fewer than all of
the Obligations of a single maturity
are to be redeemed, the selection of
Obligations of that maturity to be
redeemed, or portions thereof in
Authorized Denominations shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. If it is determined that less
than all of the principal amount represented by a Obligation is to be
called for redemption, then the registered owner of that Obligation
shall surrender the Obligation to the
Registrar (i) for payment of the
redemption price of the principal
amount called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the date fixed for
redemption and any premium), and
(ii) for issuance, without charge to
the registered owner, of a new
Obligation or Obligations of any
Authorized
Denomination
in
an
aggregate principal amount equal to
the unmatured and unredeemed portion of, and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date as, the Obligation surrendered.
The notice of the call for redemption of Obligations shall identify
(A) by designation, letters, numbers
or other distinguishing marks, the
Obligations or portions thereof to be
redeemed, (B) the redemption price
to be paid, (C) the date fixed for
redemption, and (D) the place or
places where the amounts due upon
redemption are payable. If so directed by the City, that notice may provide with respect to any optional
redemption that the redemption is
contingent on the deposit of money
with the paying agent in an amount
sufficient to pay the redemption
price of the Obligations to be optionally redeemed. The notice shall be
given by the Registrar on behalf of
the City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least seven
days prior to the date fixed for
redemption, to the registered owner
of
each
Obligation
subject
to

32
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the register maintained by
the Registrar at the close of business on the fifteenth day preceding
that mailing. Failure to receive
notice by mail or any defect in that
notice regarding any Obligation,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Obligation.
In the event that notice of redemption shall have been given by
the Registrar to the registered owners as provided above, and there
shall have been deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date, moneys that, in addition
to any other moneys available therefor and held by the Registrar, are
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price thereof, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date, all
of the redeemable Obligations for
which notice of redemption has been
given, the Obligations and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and upon presentation and surrender thereof at the
place or places specified in that
notice, shall be paid at the redemption price, plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. If moneys for
the redemption of all of the Obligations and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with accrued
interest thereon to the redemption
date, are held by the Registrar on
the redemption date, so as to be
available therefor on that date and,
if notice of redemption has been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Obligations and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
cease to bear interest and no longer
shall be considered to be outstanding. If those moneys shall not be so
available on the redemption date, or
that notice shall not have been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
those Obligations and portions thereof shall continue to bear interest,
until they are paid, at the same rate
as they would have borne had they
not been called for redemption. All
moneys held by the Registrar for
the redemption of particular Obligations shall be held in trust for the
account of the registered owners
thereof and shall be paid to them,
respectively, upon presentation and
surrender of those Obligations, provided that any interest earned on
the moneys so held by the Registrar
shall be for the account of and paid
to the City to the extent not
required for the payment of the
Obligations for redemption.
Section 5. Sale of Obligations. The
Obligations shall be awarded to the
purchaser identified in the Certificate of Award (the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award
shall specify the final terms of the
Obligations in accordance with law,
the provisions of this Ordinance, the
written advice of a financial advisor and the Original Purchaser’s
offer to purchase the Obligations,
including: the principal amount of
the Obligations, the purchase price
(which shall be not less than 97%
of the principal amount plus any
accrued interest from the date of the
Obligations to their date of deliv-

The City Record
ery), the interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), any optional
redemption dates, the interest payment dates, the date of the Obligations,
and
any
other
matters
required in this Ordinance to be set
forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor,
Director of Finance, Director of
Law, Director of Public Utilities,
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and
each of them is, authorized to take
such
actions
as
are
necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms
and requirements for delivery of the
Obligations
and
to
make
such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery of the Obligations to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and certificates, to cause
a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Obligations to be delivered to the
Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements
and
other
documents
and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to
take all steps necessary to effect
the due execution, authentication
and delivery of the Obligations. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Purchase Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Obligations and the Original Purchaser
agrees to buy the Obligations on
terms consistent with this Ordinance, that are not substantially
adverse to the City, and that are
approved by the Director of Finance
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Purchase Agreement or amendments to the Purchase Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The proceeds from the sale
of the Obligations shall be applied
as provided in the Certificate of
Award. It is determined that the
terms of the Obligations, as provided in this Ordinance and as may be
provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. Registrar Agreement;
Other Documents. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, the Registrar Agreement
between the City and the Bond
Trustee, in its capacity as registrar
and paying agent for the Obligations (the “Registrar”), in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No
261-10-A. The Registrar Agreement
is approved, together with any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this Ordinance and

712

May 19, 2010
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the Registrar Agreement or amendments
thereto. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Registrar Agreement,
except to the extent paid or reimbursed by the Original Purchaser in
accordance
with
the
Purchase
Agreement, from the proceeds of the
Obligations to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
No Obligations shall be valid or
obligatory for any purpose or shall
be entitled to any security or benefit under this Ordinance unless and
until the certificate of authentication printed on the Obligation is
signed by the Registrar as authenticating agent. Authentication by
the Registrar shall be conclusive
evidence that the Obligation so
authenticated has been duly issued,
signed and delivered under, and is
entitled to the security and benefit
of, this Ordinance. The certificate of
authentication may be signed by
any authorized officer or employee
of the Registrar or by any other person acting as an agent of the Registrar and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City.
If determined by the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of a
financial
advisor,
that
it
will
enhance the marketability of the
Obligations, the Director of Finance
may sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a security agreement (the “Trust Indenture”) providing for covenants of
the City in addition to those contained in this Ordinance, for the
establishment of a debt service
reserve fund and other funds or
accounts for the security of the
Obligations, and other terms and
conditions determined by the Director of Finance to be necessary to
sell the Obligations and that are not
inconsistent with this Ordinance or
the Bond Indenture. In that event,
the provisions in the Registrar
Agreement may be incorporated in
the Trust Indenture and all references to the Registrar Agreement
shall mean instead the Trust Indenture and all references to the Registrar shall mean instead the trustee
under the Trust Indenture. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor,
the Director of Finance, the Director of Law, the Director of Public
Utilities, the Clerk of Council and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized to sign, acknowledge and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, such documents, certifications and instruments in addition
to the Registrar Agreement and any
Trust Indenture as may be necessary or appropriate to issue and sell
the Obligations and to consummate
the transactions authorized by this
Ordinance.
Section 7. Establishment of Funds
and Accounts. An account for the
deposit of moneys to pay debt service on the Obligations (the “Subor-

May 19, 2010
dinate Lien Debt Service Fund”) is
established as a separate deposit
account in the custody of the Bond
Trustee
in
the
Additions
and
Improvements Fund held by the City
in accordance with the Bond Indenture. After making all payments
required by Article V of the Bond
Indenture to be made for the payment or security of the Bonds, there
shall be deposited in the Subordinate Lien Debt Service Fund moneys sufficient to timely pay debt service on the Obligations payable in
the then current year. A separate
fund (the “Project Fund”) shall be
established for the deposit of the
proceeds of the Obligations and
shall be held by the City in a separate deposit account and used and
applied to pay costs of the Project,
including the reimbursement to the
City of moneys temporarily advanced for the purpose in anticipation of being reimbursed from the
proceeds of the Obligations. Moneys
on deposit in the Subordinate Lien
Debt Service Fund and the Project
Fund may be invested by or at the
direction of the Director of Finance
in “Permitted Investments” as defined in the Bond Indenture. Any
amounts in the Project Fund certified by the Director of Finance to
be in excess of the amount needed
to pay costs of the Project may be
used to pay interest on the Obligations if that expenditure will not, in
the opinion of bond counsel, adversely affect the exclusion of interest on
the Obligations from gross income
for federal income tax purposes.
Section 8. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a
disclosure document (an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of
the Obligations, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of
the City an Official Statement with
respect to the Obligations and any
necessary supplements and to authorize the use and distribution of an
Official Statement and any supplements. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity the
Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The Director of Finance is authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City
and in her official capacity such certificates in connection with the
accuracy of the Official Statement
and any supplements as may, in her
judgment, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final”
by the City within the meaning of
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC Rule.”)
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
If the SEC Rule is applicable to
the Obligations, the City agrees, for
the benefit of the holders and beneficial owners from time to time of
the Obligations, to provide or cause

The City Record
to be provided such financial information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Obligations in accordance with
the SEC Rule. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
any continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision
of information and notices.
Section 9. Federal Tax Covenants.
With respect to any Obligations
issued as obligations the interest on
which
is
excluded
from
gross
income for federal income tax purposes (“Tax-Exempt Obligations”),
the City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Obligations in such manner
and to such extent as may be necessary so that (a) the Tax-Exempt
Obligations will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the TaxExempt Obligations to be and to
remain excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, (b)
it will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the TaxExempt Obligations to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property acquired with those proceeds, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Tax-Exempt Obligations, is hereby authorized (a) to
make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent,

713

33
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Tax-Exempt
Obligations as the City is permitted
or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws, including, without limitation thereto, any
of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the TaxExempt
Obligations
or
interest
thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with requirements for that purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate amount or payments or penalties, or making payments of special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Tax-Exempt Obligations, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Tax-Exempt Obligations, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt Obligations, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Tax-Exempt Obligations.
Section 10. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby
purchase
agreement
or
other credit enhancement or liquidity instrument as further security for
the payment when due of the principal of and interest on all or any
portion of the Obligations (a “Credit Support Instrument”). The Director of Finance may request a rating
on the Obligations from one or more
nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things
and
take
any
and
all
actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings on the Obligations. The Director of Finance may enter into one
or more agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing terms
not materially inconsistent with this
Ordinance. The expenditure of the
amounts necessary to secure Credit
Support Instruments or obtain those
ratings is authorized and approved,
and the Director of Finance is
authorized to provide for the payment of any such amounts from the
proceeds of the Obligations to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.

34
Section 11. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required
by this Ordinance to be determined
by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any financial advisor so retained. Any financial advisor employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the Original Purchasers
and any other party interested in
the transaction.
Section 12. Authorization and Requirement of Declarations of Official Intent. The Director of Finance,
in consultation with the Director of
Public Utilities, is authorized to prepare and sign declarations of official intent in the form required by
United States Treasury Regulations
§1.150-2 (the “Reimbursement Regulations”) with respect to original
expenditures to which the Reimbursement Regulations apply, to be
made from money temporarily advanced for improvements to the
Waterworks System and that is reasonably expected to be reimbursed
from the proceeds of tax-exempt
notes, bonds or other obligations; to
make
appropriate
reimbursement
and timely allocations from the proceeds of the tax-exempt notes, bonds
or other obligations to reimburse
such original expenditures; and to
take any other actions as may be
appropriate, all at the times and in
the manner required under the
Reimbursement
Regulations
in
order for the reimbursement to be
treated as an expenditure of such
proceeds for purposes of Sections
103 and 141 to 150 of the Code. No
advance from any fund or account
or order for payment may be made
for
original
expenditures
(other
than expenditures excepted from
such requirement under the Reimbursement Regulations) that are to
be reimbursed subsequently from
proceeds of tax-exempt notes, bonds
or other obligations, unless a declaration of official intent with respect
thereto is made within the time
required by the Reimbursement Regulations.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken, and
any of its committees and that all
deliberations of this Council that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Obligations in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as

The City Record
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Obligations. It is further found and determined, and is
represented and recited, that all
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 15. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is declared to be
an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent,
it is declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any
provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid,
the remaining sections or parts of
sections and the application of
such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those
as to which it is held invalid, shall
not be affected thereby, and it is
declared to be the legislative intent
that the other provisions of this
Ordinance would have been passed
independently of such section, or
parts of a section, so held to be
invalid.
Section 16. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio. Any provisions
of the Codified Ordinances of the
City which are inconsistent with the
provisions of this Ordinance shall
not apply to the Obligations authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is
intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any manner
as would, impair the obligation of
contract of the City with respect to
any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations,
trust
indentures,
trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City and for which consideration was duly received by the City
prior to the passage of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Emergency Measure.
This ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of the Project which is urgently needed for the benefit of the City
and for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall
take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Effective June 9, 2010.

714

May 19, 2010
Ord. No. 305-10.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180,
603.02, 603A.04 and 604.99 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by various
ordinances, changing the name of
the Division of Dog Pound to the
Division of Animal Control Services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 135.16, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Sections 135.17, 135.18, and 135.180,
as amended by Ordinance No. 187106, passed December 11, 2006,
Section 603.02, as amended by
Ordinance No. 957-99, passed August
11, 1999,
Section 604A.03, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 536-01, passed June 3,
2002, and
Section 604.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 957-99, passed August
11, 1999
are amended to read as follows:
Section 135.16 Division of Animal
Control Services; Dog Warden; Spay
and Neuter Clinic; Fee
(a) There is established in the
Department of Public Safety, a Division of Animal Control Services,
which shall consist of one Chief Dog
Warden and at least one dog warden permanently assigned to each of
the five police districts on a fulltime basis, and other dog wardens
as the Director of Public Safety
deems necessary. All of these employees shall be uniformed employees under the control and management of the Director, who shall designate the kind of uniform to be
worn and direct the operation of the
Chief and other dog wardens.
(b) The Chief Dog Warden and all
other dog wardens are authorized to
give notice and issue citations to
anyone found to be in violation of
Section 603.02 or Section 603.04.
(c) There is established in the
Department of Public Safety, Division of Animal Control Services, a
Spay and Neuter Clinic, to be administered and controlled by a Veterinarian in Charge, subject to the
direction of the Director of Public
Safety. City residents may neuter or
spay dogs or cats for the following
fees:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

Cat neuter
Cat spay
Dog neuter
Dog spay

$
$
$
$

25.00
30.00
35.00
40.00

All fees shall be paid to the City
of Cleveland at the time the neuter
or spay operation is performed.
Section 135.17 Acceptance of Gifts
and Services for the Division of Animal Control Services

May 19, 2010
The Director of Public Safety is
authorized to accept, with the grateful appreciation of the City, the
funds, other personal properties, and
services, unconditionally given or
limited by conditions as the donor
may impose, or unlimited as to specific use, as may from time to time
be donated for the use and benefit
of the Division of Animal Control
Services.
Section 135.18
Special Revenue
Fund Established for the Division of
Animal Control Services
All moneys accepted under Section
135.17 shall be placed to the credit
of the Division of Animal Control
Services in a special revenue fund.
The moneys deposited in the special
revenue fund shall be expended for
the benefit of the Division of Animal Control Services at the discretion of the Director of Public Safety, or in the manner and for the specific purpose named in the gift.
Section 135.180
Expenditure of
Donated Funds for the Division of
Animal Control Services
Expenditures from accounts shall
be made on vouchers signed by the
Director of Public Safety, or his
designee, when the amount is less
than ten thousand dollars ($10,000);
otherwise such expenditure shall
first be authorized by ordinance of
Council in the manner provided in
Charter Section 108. No part of any
funds credited to the accounts shall
be paid to or for the benefit of any
officer or employee, either as additional compensation or as reimbursement for expenses incurred, or
paid for purposes other than those
directly benefiting the Division of
Animal Control Services or in any
manner other than that applicable to
the expenditure of other public
funds, unless the payment is specifically provided for in the terms of
the gift or authorized by resolution
or ordinance of Council.
Section 603.02 Unmuzzled Dogs at
Large; Duty to Report
(a) No person shall permit an unmuzzled dog at any time to be on a
public street, highway, park, building or other public place except
when held securely in leash by the
owner or another responsible person
except when the dog is legally
engaged in training for the purpose
of hunting, herding, agility or dog
competition events, accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or a
handler.
(b) Every City employee, while in
the
performance
of
his
official
duties, who has in his possession or
under his control any radio transmitter and receiver, telephone or
other device ordinarily used for twoway
communication,
shall
immediately report to police officers or
dog wardens of the City the sighting of any unmuzzled dogs found to
be in a public place in violation of
this section. The employee shall
report the time, place, date and
description of the dog, together with
the employee’s name.
(c) If a violation of division (a)
of this section involves a dangerous
or vicious dog as defined in division
(b) or (k) of Section 604.01, the dog

The City Record
shall be impounded under Section
603.02. Impoundment of a dangerous
or vicious dog because it was found
to be in violation of this section
shall not exempt the owner of the
dog from being prosecuted under
Section 604.99.
(d) Whoever violates this section
is guilty of permitting unmuzzled
dogs at large, and shall be fined not
less
than
one
hundred
dollars
($100.00) on the first offense, and on
each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) or more than two
hundred
fifty
dollars
($250.00),
which fine shall be mandatory, and
shall not be suspended or remitted.
(e) An amount equal to the
amount of fines and penalties imposed under this section shall annually be contributed to and used for
the benefit of the Division of Animal Control Services.
Section 603A.04 Exemptions
Except
for
Sections
603A.14,
603A.15, 603A.16 and 603A.17, the provisions of which shall apply to all
persons, this chapter shall not apply
to any of the following:
(a) A person who keeps an exotic animal under a permit issued by
the United States or the State of
Ohio.
(b) A person whose duties include
the keeping or handling of exotic
animals,
while
the
person
is
engaged in that duty, and who is
employed by any of the following:
(1) The Division of Animal Control Services, Department of Public
Safety, City of Cleveland.
(2) The County kennels.
(3) The Cleveland Metroparks Zoo.
(4) The Animal Protective League.
(5) A licensed veterinary hospital
or clinic.
(6) A licensed or accredited research or medical institution.
(7) A facility licensed as an exhibitor or breeder by the United
States Department of Agriculture
under the Animal Welfare Act.
(8) A licensed or accredited educational institution, including museums.
(c) A person licensed as a wildlife
rehabilitator under OHIO ADMIN.
CODE § 1501:31-25-03.
(d) A person temporarily transporting an exotic animal through
the City if the transit time is not
more than 24 hours and the animal
is at all times maintained within a
confinement sufficient to prevent
the exotic animal from escaping.
A person who holds a license
under OHIO REV. CODE ANN. §
1533.08 and corresponding regulations.
Section 604.99 Penalties
(a) If a violation of division (a),
(b) or (c) of Section 604.03 involved
a dangerous dog, whoever violates
that Section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree on a
first offense and of a misdemeanor
of the first degree on each subsequent offense and shall be fined one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) which
fine shall be mandatory, and shall
not be suspended or remitted. Additionally, the Court may order the
offender: (i) to personally supervise
the dangerous dog that he owns,

715

35
keeps or harbors, (ii) to cause that
dog to complete dog obedience training, (iii) to attend a class on responsible pet ownership and dog behavior, or (iv) to do all three. The
Court, in the alternative, may order
the dangerous dog to be humanely
destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the County Dog Warden, or the
County Humane Society. For repeat
offenders of animal control laws
under Sections 603.02 and 603.04, the
Court may require the owner to
attend a class on responsible pet
ownership and dog behavior.
(b) If a violation of division (a),
(b) or (c) of Section 604.03 involved
a vicious dog, whoever violates that
section may be found guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on
a first offense. When any person is
found guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree such person shall be
fined
one
thousand
dollars
($1,000.00) which fine shall be mandatory, and shall not be suspended
or remitted. The Court may order
the dog to be spayed or neutered at
the owner’s, keeper’s or harborer’s
expense.
Additionally,
the
Court
may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed
veterinarian, the County Dog Warden, or the County Humane Society.
(c) Any owner who does not
obtain the liability insurance coverage required under divisions (a) or
(b) of Section 604.04 shall be found
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(d) Any owner that is found to be
in violation of division (d) of Section 604.03 shall be found guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(e) Any owner that is found to be
in violation of division (d) of Section 604.02 shall be found guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(f) Any owner that is found to be
in violation of division (h) of Section 604.02 shall be found guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(g) Any owner found to own,
keep, or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious, altered, or invalid exemption
tag shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(h) Any exempted dog conforming
to division (k)(3) of Section 604.01
that is found to be in violation of
divisions (k)(1) or (k)(2) of Section
604.01 shall forfeit its exemption status permanently.
(i) Any owner who is found guilty
of violating divisions (c) or (d) of
Section 604.04 shall be found guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) on each subsequent
offense which fine shall be mandatory and shall not be suspended or
remitted.
(j) Any owner found guilty of violating this chapter shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food,
veterinary expenses for identification or certification of the breed of
the animal or boarding and veterinary expenses necessitated by the
seizure of the vicious or dangerous
dog for the protection of the public,
and such other expenses as may be
required for the destruction of any
such dog.
(k) An amount equal to the
amount of fines and penalties imposed pursuant to this section shall

36
annually be contributed to and used
for the benefit of the Division of
Animal Control Services.
(l) This Section shall not apply
whenever the conduct proscribed in
this chapter constitutes a felony
under RC 955.99.
Section 2. That the existing Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 135.16, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Sections 135.17, 135.18, and 135.180,
as amended by Ordinance No. 187106, passed December 11, 2006,
Section 603.02, as amended by
Ordinance No. 957-99, passed August
11, 1999,
Section 604A.03, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 536-01, passed June 3,
2002, and
Section 604.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 957-99, passed August
11, 1999
are repealed.
Section 3. That any references
contained in the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the Division of Dog Pound, shall be amended to read the Division of Animal
Control Services, consistent with
this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is authorized, when publishing
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and any amendments, to change all references to
the Division of Dog Pound to read
the division of Animal Control Services.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 410-10.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more agreements
with Cuyahoga County for the use
of the Ameritrust Building, located
at 900 Euclid Avenue for training
purposes for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety, for a
period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more agreements with
Cuyahoga County for the use of the
Ameritrust Building, located at 900
Euclid Avenue for training purposes for the Division of Fire, Department of Public Safety, for a period
of one year.

The City Record
Section 2. That the agreement
will be approved by the Director of
Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 411-10.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Addison Road and
Wade Park Avenue to Eliza Bryant
Village.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Eliza
Bryant Village.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-03-009
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 66 in W.E. Andrews’
Third Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 344
and 345 as appears by the recorded
plat in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 27
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 30.78 feet front on the Southwesterly side of East Madison Avenue, (Addison Road, N.E.) 98.18 feet
deep on the Northwesterly line,
105.05 feet deep on the Southeasterly line (which is also the Northwesterly line of Duluth Street, now
known as Duluth Avenue, N.E.) and
30 feet in the rear as appears by
said Plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.

716

May 19, 2010
P. P. No. 106-03-026
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio: and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
345, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Northerly line of Wade Park
Avenue N.E., (70 feet wide) and the
Southwesterly line of Addison Road
N.E., (50 feet wide); thence Westerly along the Northerly line of Wade
Park Avenue N.E., 185 feet to the
Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to Hyman Silverstein and Sidney Amder by deed dated August 14,
1952, and recorded in Volume 7634,
Page
363
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of land so conveyed to
Hyman
Silverstein
and
Sidney
Amder to the Northeasterly corner
thereof and to a point in the Southeasterly line of parcel of land conveyed to Martin Weber and Margaret A. Weber, by deed dated January 17, 1950, and recorded in Volume 6875, Page 35 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Northeasterly along the Southeasterly line of
land so conveyed to Martin Weber
and Margaret A. Weber to a point
in the Southwesterly line of Addison
Road
N.E.;
thence
Southeasterly
along the Southwesterly line of
Addison Road N.E., 133 feet to its
intersection with the Northerly line
of Wade Park Avenue N.E., and the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P. P. No. 106-03-027
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio: And known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No,
345, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the northerly line of
Wade Park Avenue N.E., at a point
distant Westerly 250 feet from its
point of intersection with the Westerly line of Addison Road, N.E., formerly East Madison Avenue, thence
Northerly at right angles to Wade
Park Avenue N.E., 80 feet; to the
Southwesterly corner of a parcel of
land conveyed to Anna Katherine
King by deed dated November 4
1905, and recorded in Volume 1006,
Page
234
of.
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Easterly parallel
with the Northerly line of Wade
Park Avenue N.E., and along the
Southerly line of said parcel conveyed so to Anna Katherine King,
50 feet; thence North 13" 43’, East
and along the Southeasterly line of
land conveyed to Anna Katherine
King, by deed dated November 4,
1905, and recorded in Volume 1006,
Page
234
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records to the Northwesterly corner
of land conveyed to Ann C. Britton
by deed dated September 17, 1915
and recorded in Volume 1715, Page
97 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Southerly along the Westerly line of land so conveyed to Ann
C. Britton to the northerly line of
Wade Park Avenue N.E., at a point
distant Easterly 65 feet from the
place of beginning, thence Westerly
along the Northerly line of Wade
Park Avenue N.E., 65 feet to the

May 19, 2010
place of beginning; and further
known as 7307-11 Wade Park Avenue, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 412-10.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 11002 Superior Avenue to Maher A. Suleiman.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record

37

Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Maher A. Suleiman.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:

immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

P. P. No. 120-03-001
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 1 in the Hamilton Allotment of part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 387, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 24 of Maps, Page
13 of Cuyahoga County Records and
bounded and described follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southerly line of Superior Avenue N.E., with the Easterly line of
East 110th Street: Thence Southerly
along the Easterly line of East
110th Street 80.59 feet: Thence Easterly at right angles to said Easterly line of East 110th Street 42.07
feet: Thence Northerly on a line parallel with said Easterly line of East
110th Street 27.08 feet: Thence Westerly at right angles to the described
line 2 feet: Thence Northerly to a
point in the Southerly line of Superior Avenue N.E., which is 40.50 feet
distant Easterly from the place of
beginning, measured along the Southerly line of Superior Avenue N.E.;
thence Westerly along the Southerly line of Superior Avenue N.E., 40.50
feet to the place of beginning as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways and ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

Ord. No. 413-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 116th Street to
Louis Golphin.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Louis
Golphin.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:

717

P. P. No. 129-26-006
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot No.
72 in the Frank Soika Subdivision
No. 2 of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 436 and 437, as
shown by the recorded Plat in Volume 47 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records and being
56.17 feet front on the Easterly side
of East 116th Street, 140 feet deep on
the Southerly line, which is also the
Northerly line of Soika Avenue, S.E.,
and 55.25 feet wide in the rear, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.

38
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 443-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Youth Opportunities Unlimited
for the administration, implementation, and management of the 2010
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Youth Opportunities Unlimited
for the administration, implementation, and management of the 2010
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program, which will include
painting fire hydrants and other
assignments. If arranged by the
Director of Public Utilities through
negotiations with suburban communities, then the youth opportunities
may include activities in those communities.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
not exceed $482,774.99 and be paid
from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 54 SF 001,
and 58 SF 001, Request No. RQS 2002
RL 2010-37.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 445-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 11 of Ordinance No. 1659-08,
passed December 8, 2008, relating to
the establishment of the Energy
Efficiency and Conservation Program, to provide for additional funding sources for the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 11 of Ordinance No. 1659-08, passed December
8, 2008, is amended to read as follows:
Section 11. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited any grant proceeds or cash
gifts accepted under this ordinance,
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funds accepted
under Ordinance No. 463-09, passed
April 20, 2009, Fund No. 58 SF 001,
and from any fund or funds deemed
appropriate
by
the
Director
of
Finance and are appropriated for
this purpose.
Section 2. That existing Section 11
of Ordinance No. 1659-08, passed
December 8, 2008, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 446-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to perform services to
collect, analyze, sample, recycle, and
dispose of spent aircraft deicing
fluid, and to maintain and monitor
valves
and
other
appurtenances
associated with regulatory compliance, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years, with two oneyear options to renew, the first of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority; and to
repeal Ordinance No. 762-09, passed
August 5, 2009, relating to requirement contracts for these services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

718

May 19, 2010
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to collect, analyze, sample, recycle,
and dispose of spent aircraft deicing
fluid, and to maintain and monitor
valves and other appurtenances associated with regulatory compliance,
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years, with two oneyear options to renew, the first of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001,
60 SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, 60
SF 140, and 60 SF 141, Request No.
RQS 3001 RL 2010-51.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 76209, passed August 5, 2009, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 447-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts with Siemens Building
Technologies, Inc. for labor and
materials necessary to maintain,
repair and expand the existing
Building Automation System, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, for a period not to exceed
three years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

May 19, 2010
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council has
determined that the within services
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Siemens
Building
Technologies,
Inc. Therefore, the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a period not to exceed three years,
of the necessary items of labor and
materials necessary to maintain,
repair, and expand the existing
Building Automation System, which
includes, but is not limited to interior and exterior lighting systems,
HVAC,
boilers,
chillers,
cooling
towers, pumps, and air handlers, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department
of Port Control.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RQN 3001
RL 2010-13)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 449-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Finance to
enter into one or more contracts
with the Cleveland Metropolitan
School District to conduct recreational, cultural, and extracurricular
programs for the benefit of school
children during the 2009-10 school
year.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1025-A-95, passed June 28, 1995, tax
revenues from levying the parking
facility tax and increases in the
motor vehicle lessor tax and the
admission tax can be used to fund
recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs within the Cleveland School system; and
Whereas, the Joint Board established by Ordinance No. 1025-A-95
has recommended that a portion of
the tax proceeds be used to fund a
number of recreational, cultural, and
extracurricular programs for City
school children during the 2009-10

The City Record
school year, including dance, drama,
instrumental, vocal, cheerleading,
aquatic, sports, and academic enrichment programs; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Finance are authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Cleveland Metropolitan School District to conduct various recreational,
cultural and extracurricular programs for the benefit of City school
children during the 2009-10 school
year, under the program description
contained in File No. 449-10-A. The
cost of the contract or contracts
shall not exceed $1,000,000 and shall
be payable from the fund or funds
to which are credited the proceeds
of the taxes levied under Ordinance
No. 1025-A-95, passed June 28, 1995,
under terms and conditions as are
acceptable to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 450-10.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Whittier Avenue to
Eleanor B. Rainey Memorial Institute, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Eleanor B. Rainey Memorial Institute, Inc.

719

39
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-18-070
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
4, the Easterly 12 feet of Sublot No.
1 and the Easterly 12 feet of the
Northerly 52.27 feet of Sublot No. 2
in the Sweesy et. al. Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 340, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 12 of Maps, Page
40 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land
having a frontage of 50 feet on the
Southerly side of Whittier Avenue,
N.E., (formerly Sixth Avenue), and
extending back of equal width
142.73 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 455-10.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with the
Village of Linndale, Ohio to provide
emergency medical services within
the Village of Linndale, for a peri-

40
od of one year, with automatic oneyear term renewals unless cancelled
by the Director of Public Safety or
the Village of Linndale.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the Village
of Linndale, Ohio to provide emergency medical services within the
Village of Linndale, Ohio for an
annual service coverage fee to be
determined by the Board of Control
and paid by the Village of Linndale
in two yearly equal installment periods with a 3% increase to be applied
to the total amount payable for each
year following the initial year. This
agreement shall be entered into as
of January 1, 2011 and shall be for
a term of one year, with automatic
one-year term renewals unless cancelled by the Director of Public
Safety or the Village of Linndale.
Section 2. That the agreement
shall be authorized by the legislative body of the Village of Linndale.
Section 3. That the agreement
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 456-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants, computer software developers, or vendors to acquire
licenses or to develop an energy
data management system, and other
professional services necessary to
implement the system, including
project management, installing, designing, training, testing, maintenance, technical support, and other
related issues; and authorizing the
purchase by one or more contracts
of computer hardware, servers, and
other materials, equipment, supplies,
and services needed to implement
the management system, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to

The City Record
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants, computer software developers, or vendors or one
or more firms of consultants, computer software developers, or vendors for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of
the several departments of the City
of Cleveland to acquire one or more
software licenses or to develop an
energy data management system,
and other professional services necessary to implement the system,
including project management, installing, designing, training, testing,
maintenance, technical support, and
other related issues.
The selection of the consultants,
computer software developers, or
vendors for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Utilities for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into any third-party software
license agreements necessary to
effectuate the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the necessary items of computer
hardware, servers, and other materials, equipment, supplies, and services not otherwise acquired under
Section 1 of this ordinance, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities for a period of two years.
Section 4. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Utilities may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from Fund
No. 58 SF 001, from the fund or
funds which are credited the grant
proceeds received under Ordinance
No. 463-09, passed April 20, 2009, and
any other funds deemed appropriate
by the Director of Finance, and are
appropriated
for
this
purpose,
Request No. RQS 2004 RL 2010-31.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

720

May 19, 2010
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 498-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 589-09,
passed June 1, 2009, relating to the
public improvement of renovating
and upgrading the Runway Safety
Area for Runway 10-28 at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, and
other related contracts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordnance No. 589-09, passed June 1, 2009,
is amended to read as follows:
Section
2.
That,
alternatively,
under Section 167 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland, this Council
determines to make the Improvement, for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement.
That the Director of Port Control
is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts for the making of
the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the Improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each,
or any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordnance No. 589-09, passed June
1, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 502-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to employ one
or more professional consultants to
provide armed security services at
various indoor and outdoor recreation facilities, including but not

May 19, 2010
limited to, outdoor pools, recreation
centers, and various surrounding
play areas, for a period not to exceed fifteen months.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to provide armed
security services at various indoor
and outdoor recreation facilities, including but not limited to, outdoor
pools, recreation centers, and various
surrounding play areas, for a period
not to exceed fifteen months.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-7004-6380,
Request No. RQS 7004 RL 2010-56.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 503-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with the Neighborhood
Leadership Institute to implement
educational, recreational and cultural programs in various school buildings and recreation centers, provide
leadership training, and conduct
citywide summer tennis programs.
Whereas, based on recommendations made by the Cleveland Summit
on Education, certain pilot programs
were created; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with Neighborhood Leadership
Institute to implement educational,
recreational and cultural programs
in various school buildings during
evening hours and in various recreation centers, provide leadership
training, and conduct citywide summer tennis programs during day or
evening hours, in an amount not to
exceed $289,511, payable from Fund
Nos. 01-7004-6380, Request No. RQS
7004 RL 2010-58.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 504-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract with the Cleveland Municipal Football Association to conduct
a city-wide football program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into contract
with the Cleveland Municipal Football Association to conduct a citywide football program and to pay
participant entry fees, in an amount
not to exceed $75,098, payable from
Fund No. 01-7004-6380, Request No.
RQS 7004 RL 2010-57.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 505-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recre-

721

41
ation and Properties to enter into
one or more contracts with City
Year to perform community service
work and to collaborate with various non-profit agencies.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with City Year to perform
community service work and to collaborate with non-profit agencies, in
an amount not to exceed $75,000.00,
payable from Fund No. 01-7004-6380,
Request No. RQS 7004 RL 2010-60.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 506-10.
By Council Members Polensek, K.
Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract with the Salvation Army
for administrating and facilitating
recreational services in Ward 11, for
the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into contract
with the Salvation Army, Cleveland
Temple Corps, 17625 Grovewood Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, 44119, or its
designee, to administer and facilitate recreational services in the
Collinwood Community in Ward 11,
for the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, in the total sum of
$70,000, payable from Fund No. 017004-6380, Request No. RQS 7004 RL
2010-61.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record

42
Ord. No. 507-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant and NEF Administrative Cost
funds for administrative expenses of
the Department of Community Development; authorizing the director
to enter into one or more contracts
with Executive Information Systems, LLC for SAS software maintenance, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received Community Development Block Grant, Year 36 funds
from the United States Government;
and
Whereas, City Council has designated administrative processing costs
from Neighborhood Equity Funds;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $4,272,000 from Fund
Nos. 14 SF 033, 14 SF 034, and 14
SF 035, 14 SF 036 are appropriated
for the administrative expenses of
the Department of Community Development
under
the
following
schedule:
Personnel
Other

$3,747,000
525,000

Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to expend funds and enter into
contracts for reimbursement of nonprofit subrecipients for the cost of
audit and other professional services.
Section 3. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from a source other than
Executive Information Systems, LLC.
Therefore the Director of Community Development is authorized to
make one or more written contracts
with Executive Information Systems, LLC for SAS software maintenance, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for the Department of Community Development, for a period of
two years.
Section 4. That the costs of the
contracts authorized in this ordinance shall be paid from Fund No.
14 SF 036.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 508-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating CDBG and Federal HOME
Program funds for the administration of the Housing Rehabilitation
Programs;
and
authorizing
the
Director of Community Development to employ one or more professional consultants to provide
property inspections in compliance
with Section 8 Housing Quality
Standards.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received Community Development Block Grant (“CDBG”) Year 36
and Year 2010 Federal HOME Program grants from the United States
Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That CDBG and Federal HOME Program funds are
appropriated for the administration
of the Housing Rehabilitation Programs.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to perform property inspections to comply
with Section 8 Housing Quality
Standards.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Community Development from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass
by the Director of Community Development for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to
be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director
of Law, approved by the Director
of Community Development, and
certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
Section 3. That the costs incurred
in Sections 1 and 2 of this ordinance
may not exceed $1,740,000 and shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 14 SF 036
and 19 SF 640.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

722

May 19, 2010
Ord. No. 509-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations and
private for profit entities; to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City of
Cleveland departments to implement
the City’s community development
programs; and to expend funds for
the operation of programs administered by the Department of Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant (“CDBG”), Year 36
from the United States Government;
and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has approved the Year
36 Community Development Block
Grant Plan which committed funds
to Neighborhood Development Activities (“NDA”), which are CDBG eligible activities proposed by the various Council members; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter into or
amend contracts with various social
service agencies, community development or local development corporations, private for-profit entities,
State of Ohio, Cuyahoga County,
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, Cleveland Municipal School District, Regional Transit Authority,
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District, Cleveland Metroparks, and
such other governmental entities as
defined under the Ohio Revised Code
to implement activities and programs that are eligible under the
Community Development Block Grant
CDBG Program and are consistent
with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development, after receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City
departments to implement activities
and programs that are eligible
under the CDBG Program and are
consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development, after receiving the approval stated in Section
4 below, is authorized to expend
NDA funds for any CDBG eligible
Programs administered by the Department of Community Development including entering into contract with rehabilitation service providers, tenants, homeowners, and
entities providing services necessary to process loans and grants to
implement the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Programs, Paint Refund

May 19, 2010
Program and other programs administered by the Department of
Community Development.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into or amending those contracts or
memorandums of understanding, or
expending any funds, the Director
of Community Development shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line
item is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for
such activity or program does not
exceed the amount allocated for the
Council member’s ward pursuant to
the relevant Community Development Block Grant plan.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, memorandums of understanding and expenditures for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development shall not exceed $8,455,000.00
and any prior years NDA balances
and shall be paid from Fund Nos. 14
SF 030, 14 SF 031, 14 SF 032, 14 SF
033, 14 SF 034, 14 SF 035 and 14 SF
036.
Section 6. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into or
amend contracts with the entities
administering the NDA program
that generated program income in
an amount not to exceed that generated program income and to expend funds for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development that generated
program income in an amount not to
exceed
that
generated
program
income all to be paid from the
revolving fund in Fund 14.
Section 7. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans made under this program.
Section 8. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into forbearance
agreements with any recipient of a
validly existing loan administered
by the City, and to charge and
accept fees and to expend such fees
to cover costs incurred in the preparation of loan documents, closing,
and servicing costs. Such fees shall
be deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 14.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 513-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 7 and
8 of Ordinance No. 775-07, passed

The City Record
July 11, 2007, relating to the Automatic Meter Reading System Program; authorizing the Director of
Public Utilities to apply for and
accept a Water Supply Revolving
Loan Account loan to provide funding for the Program; and to authorize the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into an amendment to Contract No. 67994 with CH2M Hill, Inc.
to provide project administration
services for the implementation of
the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, and 8 of Ordinance
No. 775-07, passed July 11, 2007, are
amended to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to employ consultants, computer software developers, or vendors
or one or more firms of consultants,
computer software developers, or
vendors necessary for installing, designing, assessing, administering,
training, implementing, testing, integrating, migrating, maintenance and
providing incidental equipment and
supplies and other services necessary to implement a meter automation, replacement, and water loss
control
program
throughout
the
Division of Water service area; applying for and accepting a Water
Supply
Revolving
Loan
Account
loan to provide funding for the Program; determining the method of
making the public improvement of
installing new equipment, including
removing existing equipment if necessary; and authorizing the Director
to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement, for the
Department of Public Utilities.
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants, computer software developers, or vendors or one
or more firms of consultants, computer software developers, or vendors for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland for installing,
designing, assessing, administering, training, implementing, testing, integrating, migrating and providing incidental equipment and
supplies and other services necessary to implement a meter automation, replacement, and water loss
control program throughout the
Division of Water service area
(“Automatic Meter Reading System
Program”), generally described in
the Executive Summary and Legislative History of AMR Legislation placed in the file mentioned
below, to acquire software licenses,
if necessary, and other professional services necessary to implement
the program and for hardware and
software maintenance, support, and
training, on an as-needed basis, for
a period of one year with three oneyear options to renew for additional one-year periods, for the Department of Public Utilities, exercis-

723

43
able at the option of the Director
of Public Utilities.
The selection of the consultants,
computer software developers, or
vendors for the licenses or services
shall be made by the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for
the purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the Director of Finance.
That a copy of the selected proposal
shall be placed in the file mentioned
below.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply for
and accept a Water Supply Revolving
Loan Account (“WSRLA”) loan in the
approximate amount of $11,000,000 to
provide funding for the Automatic
Meter Reading System Program.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into a loan agreement with
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency and the Ohio Water Development Authority for a WSRLA
loan which loan agreement shall
substantially be in the same form
as the agreement contained in File
No. 513-10-A. The Director of Public
Utilities is further authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents to receive the funds under
the WSRLA Agreement; and appropriate the loan funds for the purposes as set forth in the WSRLA
Agreement.
Section 4. That on execution of the
WSRLA Agreement, the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
repay the loan funds to the WSRLA
in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the WSRLA Agreement, from the operating revenues
of the Division of Water.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into any third party license
agreements, including maintenance
and support, necessary to effect the
purposes of this ordinance.
Section 8. That the cost of the contract, contracts, and contract amendments authorized in this ordinance
shall not exceed $90,000,000 and
shall be paid from the fund or funds
to which are credited the proceeds
of the sale of future waterworks
revenue bonds issued for this purpose, from the fund or funds to
which are credited the proceeds of
the sale of water revenue obligations authorized by Ordinance No.
261-10, from the fund or funds to
which are credited the proceeds of
the WSRLA loan, and Fund No. 52
SF 001, Request No. 173608.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, and 8 of
Ordinance No. 775-07, passed July 11,
2007, are repealed.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 67994 with CH2M Hill, Inc. to

44
provide project administration services for the implementation of the
program.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Effective June 9, 2010.

Ord. No. 520-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant funds for expenses of the Senior
Homeowners
Assistance
Program
(SHAP) and the CHORE Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
received a Community Development
Block Grant, Year 36, from the United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of Two Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($260,000) from Fund No.
14 SF 036, RQS 8006 RL 2010-81, are
appropriated for costs of the Department of Aging incurred in Fund 19
associated with conducting the Senior
Homeowners
Assistance
Program
(“SHAP”) and the CHORE Program in
conjunction
with
the
Community
Development Block Grant Program.
Section 2. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Aging and the Director of Community Development shall enter into
a memorandum of understanding for
this program.
Section 3 That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 521-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 730 East 155th Street
to Most Reverend Richard G. Lennon, Bishop of the Diocese of Cleveland.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive

The City Record
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Most
Reverend Richard G. Lennon, Bishop of the Diocese of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 116-09-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio; and known as being Sublot No.
21 in WA Rose’s Subdivision of part
of Original Euclid Township, Tract
No. 16, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 8 of Maps, Page 1 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 155th Street (formerly
Otto Street) and extending back of
equal width 135 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

724

May 19, 2010
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 611-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Aetna Race for Kids,
on June 20, 2010, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Aetna Race for
Kids, sponsored by Hermes Sports
& Events, on June 20, 2010, start:
Progressive Field to Ontario, Ontario to Carnegie/Lorain, Carnegie/Lorain to W. 25th, W. 25th to
Detroit, Detroit across Veterans
Bridge to Huron, Huron to E. 6th,
E. 6th to Gateway Plaza to finish,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 612-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the American Lung Association’s Annual Walk, on May 22,
2010, sponsored by the American
Lung Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

May 19, 2010
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the American Lung
Association’s Annual Walk, sponsored by the American Lung Association on May 22, 2010, Start:
Burke Lakefront Airport, N. Marginal to E. 9th to Voinovich Park
E. 9th to Superior, Superior to W.
9th, W. 9th to St. Clair, St. Clair to
W. 3rd W. 3rd around stadium, to
Erieside, Erieside across E. 9th to
N. Marginal to finish at Burke Airport, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 613-10.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Polensek.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Crohns & Colitis
Walk, on June 19, 2010, sponsored by
Crohns & Colitis Foundation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council
consents to and approves the holding
of the Crohns & Colitis Walk, beginning at Gateway Plaza around both
Quicken Loan Arena, and Progressive Field, staying on sidewalk as
much as possible, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in
the event. Said permit shall further
provide that the City of Cleveland
shall be fully indemnified from any
and all liability resulting from the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 614-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of
a permit for the Westside Catholic
Center Run on June 12, 2010, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Westside Catholic Center Run, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events on June 12,
2010, starting at WSCC on Lorain;
Lorain to Fulton Road; Fulton to
Franklin Blvd.; Franklin Blvd. to
West 65th; turn around, Franklin
Blvd. to West 38th; West 38th to
Lorain; Lorain to WSCC — finish,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets
may
be
closed
as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 615-10.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Hessler Neighborhood Association
to stretch one (1) banner at Ford
Drive, for the period from May 10,
2010 to May 30, 2010, inclusive, publicizing the 41st Hessler Street
Fair.

725

45
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Hessler
Neighborhood Association to install, maintain and remove one banner at Ford Drive, for a period
from May 10, 2010 to May 30, 2010,
inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial advertising shall be
printed or permitted on said banner
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of
said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 616-10.
By Council Members Mitchell, Conwell, J. Johnson, Cimperman, Cummins, Zone, Westbrook and Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Rite Aid Cleveland
Marathon, May 16, 2010, sponsored
by Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the RiteAid Cleveland Marathon sponsored by Cleveland Marathon, Inc. on May 16, 2010,
with the Full Marathon starting at
East 9th in front of the Galleria; N.
on 9th; W. on Erieside; N. on Erieside; W. on Erieside; S. on West 3rd;
W. on Lakeside; S. on W. 6th; W.
6th turns into Prospect; S. on
Ontario; SW on exit ramp to Carnegie; W. on Carnegie; W. on
Lorain; N. 38th; W. on Detroit; W.
on Lake; N. on Cove; E. on Edgewater; E. on ramp to Cleveland

46
Memorial (Shoreway); E. On Cleveland
Memorial (Shoreway); exit Shoreway from west bound entrance
ramp on Lakeside; N. on W. 3rd; E.
on Alfred Lerner Way; E. on Erieside (south side of Browns Stadium); E. on N. Marginal; around
south side on path at end of N. Marginal S. on Martin Luther King; S.
on East Blvd.; S. on E. 105; N. on
MLK; W. on St. Clair; S. on E. 40th,
W. on Euclid, N. on E. 18th, W. on
Lakeside; finish on Lakeside between Willard Park and City Hall,
Half Maraton starting at 9th in
front of Galleria; N. on 9th; W. on
Erieside; N. on Erieside; W. on Erieside; S. on West 3rd; W. on Lakeside; S. on W. 6th; W. 6th turns into
Prospect; S. on Ontario; S.W. on exit
ramp to Carnegie; W on Carnegie;
W. on Lorain; N. 38th; W on Detroit;
W. on Lake; N. on Cove; E. on Edgewater; E. on ramp to Cleveland
Memorial (Shoreway); E. on Cleveland Memorial (Shoreway); take on
ramp from Lakeside to Lakeside; S.
on W. 3rd; E. on St. Clair; N on 9th;
E. on Lakeside; finish on Lakeside
between Willard Park and City
Hall, 5K Marathon starting at on
street in front of Shooters Parking
Lot; W on Main; Right on Elm; Left
on Hemlock; left on Mulbery; right
on Main; left on W. 25; right on
Detroit, left on W. 45; left on
Franklin; left on W. 25; right on
Main; left on Mulberry; right on
Hemlock; right on Elm; left on
Main; finish by entrance to Shooters, 10K Marathon starting on, 9th
in front of Galleria; N. on 9th; E. on
N. Marginal Drive; take off-ramp to
55th; S on 55th; W. on S. Marginal
Drive; turnaround at Amtrack Station; E. on off-ramp to E. 9th; S on
9th; W. on Lakeside; finish on
Lakeside by Stamp in Willard Park,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 617-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 10 of Ordinance No. 808-09,
passed June 8, 2009, relating to making the public improvement of con-

The City Record
structing a bike station in Gateway
North Garage and authorizing a
Lease By Way of Concession for the
operation of the bike station with
Downtown Cleveland Alliance and
other professional consultants to
implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 10 of Ordinance No. 808-09, passed June 8, 2009,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 10. That the cost of the
contracts authorized shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 379, 20 SF 381,
20 SF 391, 20 SF 393, 20 SF 503, 20
SF 505, 20 SF 509, 20 SF 517, 20 SF
524, 20 SF 526, 20 SF 646, and 20 SF
670. Request No. 112433 and RQS
0117 RL 2010-117.
Section 2. That existing Section 10
of Ordinance No. 808-09, passed June
8, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Effective May 19, 2010.

Ord. No. 618-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 5 of Ordinance No. 555-09,
passed June 8, 2009, relating to making the public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating or otherwise
altering the City-owned former Coast
Guard station building on Whiskey
Island and authorizing design services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 5 of Ordinance No. 555-09, passed June 8, 2009,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 381, 20 SF 391, 20
SF 457, 20 SF 503, 20 SF 509, 20 SF
517, and 20 SF 524. Request No.
112430 and RQS 0117 RL 2010-118.
Section 2. That existing Section 5
of Ordinance No. 555-09, passed June
8, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Effective May 19, 2010.

726

May 19, 2010
Ord. No. 623-10.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance amending
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1566-09 passed
October 26, 2009 as it pertains to the
Famicos Foundation Senior Transportation Program through the use of
Ward 8 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1566-09 passed October 26,
2009 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement effective July 1, 2009
with Famicos Foundation for the
Senior Transportation Program for
the public purpose of providing
transportation assistance to needy
senior citizens that reside in the
city of Cleveland who are in need
of transportation services through
the use of Ward 8 Neighborhood
Capital Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1566-09 passed October 26,
2009 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 10, 2010.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, May 17, 2010
2:00 p.m.
Public
Service
Committee
and
Finance Committee: Present in Service: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady,
Cleveland, Keane, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Brancatelli.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair;
Kelley,
Vice
Chair;
Brady, Cleveland, Keane, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Brancatelli.
Wednesday, May 19, 2010
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell, Chair; Polensek, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cummins, Miller, Mitchell,
Zone.
Authorized Absence: Dow,
Cleveland.

The City Record

May 19, 2010

47

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program — expend CDBG funds
(O 520-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724

Agreements
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1566-09 — Famicos Foundation Senior Transportation Program
(Ward 8 NCF) (O 623-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Cedar Road Bridge replacement ñ consent ñ Cuyahoga Commissioners (O 652-10)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Consent agreement and cause payment for Lakefront pedestrian tunnels (O 663-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 690
Educational, recreational and cultural programs — school buildings and recreation centers —
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — CSMD — Parks, Recreation and Properties
Department (O 503-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721
NSPI — Grant agreements — OSU & Parkworks (agriculture and park developments)
(O 466-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
Safety Department — Cuy. Co. — Ameritrust Bldg. for training purposes (O 410-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
Slavic Village Development Corp. — Noise Abatement Survey Study (Ward 12 NCF)
(O 676-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691
Sunpu-Opto Semiconductor, Ltd — agreement — Finance Department (O 496-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695-696
Village of Linndale — EMS Services (O 455-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719

American Lung Association
American Lung Association’s Annual Walk — permit — May 22nd (O 612-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724

Appreciation
Collins, Rose (R 689-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Ertle II, Karl J. (R 691-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Ford, Bettie (R 690-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Appropriations
Administrative expenses — appropriate CDBG and NEF funds — SAS software
maintenance — Executive Information Systems, LLC — Community
Development Department (O 507-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demolition Program & Board-up Program — appropriate CDBG funds — Building and
Housing Department (O 517-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Rehabilitation Programs — Section 8 HQS inspections — appropriate CDBG and
Federal HOME Program funds — Community Development Department (O 508-10) . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program — expend CDBG funds —
Aging Department (O 520-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 722
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 722
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724

Banners
Burten, Bell, Carr Development — East 55th & Scovill (near East Tech) — May 25 to June 28 —
Ward 5 Family Festival — Service Dept. (Ward 05) (O 667-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691
Hessler Street Fair — Ford Dr. — May 10th thru May 30th — Hessler Neighborhood Assoc. —
Service Dept. (Ward 09) (O 615-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
Sagrada Familia Church — Detroit Ave. — June 1 to June 30th — Church Festival (Ward 15)
(O 668-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Ada Avenue, 11107, (Ward 9) — James Stuart, owner — appeal resolved on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-443-09)
Avalon Road, 1766, (Ward 10) — Deloris Oliver, owner — appeal resolved on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-449-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Avenue, 6910, (Ward 15) — Ronnie C. Roy, owner — appeal resolved on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-441-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Continental Avenue, 11229, (Ward 4) — Beverly A. Banks, owner — appeal resolved on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-431-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corsica Avenue, 15900, (Ward 11) — Edward R. Hayes Jr., owner — appeal resolved on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-444-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diamond Avenue, 5701, (Ward 5) — Curtis S. Hunt, owner — appeal postponed to 05/26/10 on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-1-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

727

. . . . . . . . . . . . 703
. . . . . . . . . . . . 703
. . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . 703
. . . . . . . . . . . . 703

48

The City Record
East 113th Street, 3466, (Ward 6) — Raymond Kelly, owner — appeal resolved on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-3-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 117th Street, 3612, (Ward 6) — Iqbal Athwal, owner — appeal postponed to 05/26/10
on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-10-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 125th Street, 2822, (Ward 6) — Raymond Wakins, owner — appeal adopted on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-419-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 126th Street, 2837, (Ward 6) — Helen M. Goczo, owner — appeal resolved on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-9-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 127th Street, 2793, (Ward 6) — Karen Hasan Walker, owner — appeal postponed to
05/26/10 on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-2-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 127th Street, 2853, (Ward 6) — Kandis Morrissette, owner — appeal resolved on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-11-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 128th Street, 559, (Ward 10) — Joseph L. Scott, owner — appeal adopted on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-422-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 141st Street, 1046, (Ward 10) — Ronald D. Pace, owner — appeal resolved on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-440-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 144th Street, 3568, (Ward 2) — Bob Boyd, owner — appeal resolved on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-445-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 144th Street, 3717, (Ward 2) — Lennox Enterprizes Unlimited, owner — appeal resolved
on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-442-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 144th Street, 3721, (Ward 6) — Christopher Chavers, owner — appeal adopted on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-420-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 148th Street, 395, (Ward 10) — Jose Soto, owner — appeal adopted on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-427-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 82nd Street, 1602-04, (Ward 7) — John Jackson, owner — appeal adopted on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-417-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 668, (Ward 3) — K & D Group, 668 Atrium , owner — appeal adopted on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-115-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 8400, (Ward 6) — Sl Harb, owner — appeal postponed to 05/26/10 on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-4-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Frankfort Avenue, 621, (Ward 3) — Rockefeller Building Assocoates, owner — appeal adopted
on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-435-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Avenue, 8107, (Ward 5) — E. 79th Redevelopment Ltd., owner — appeal adopted
on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-434-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greenwich Avenue, 11205, (Ward 2) — Christopher S. Tourtellot, owner — appeal resolved
on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-450-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Iowa Avenue, 11709, (Ward 10) — Ossie Hill, owner — appeal resolved on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-432-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leigh Ellen Avenue, 15708, (Ward 18) — Katherine Wolf c/o Robert Neitzel, owner — appeal
resolved on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-146-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Louisianna Avenue, 3197, (Ward 14) — George Roganishi, owner — appeal resolved on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-423-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Overlook Avenue, 11025, (Ward 6) — Cecil Witcher, owner — appeal adopted on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-437-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4362-64, (Ward 13) — Keith Duffield, owner — appeal adopted on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-421-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Avenue, 612, (Ward 3) — Nick Vroutos, owner — appeal adopted on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-147-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shadeland Avenue, 11712, (Ward 9) — Curtis King, owner — appeal withdrawn on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-438-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Avenue, 6920, (Ward 12) — Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity, owner — appeal
resolved on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-439-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 14th Street, 2000, (Ward 3) — Bojack’s Meat & Poultry, Inc., owner — appeal adopted
on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-279-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 14th Street, 2253, (Ward 3) — Grace Hospital, owner — appeal adopted on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-426-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 14th Street, 2267, (Ward 3) — Grace Hospital, owner — appeal adopted on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-425-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 150th Street, 4900, (Ward 19) — Karas Properties, Inc., owner — appeal resolved on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-33-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 33rd Street, 3887, (Ward 3) — Cuyahoga Real Estate, owner — appeal adopted on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-429-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 46th Street, 3321, (Ward 14) — Jua Cruz c/o Bank of America, owner — appeal adopted
on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-416-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 1303, (Ward 3) — Lust Nighclub, owner — no action on 5/12/10
(Doc. A-448-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 83rd Street, 2015, (Ward 15) — Giuseppe (Joe) Tieri, owner — appeal adopted on
5/12/10 (Doc. A-88-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Avenue, 3800, (Ward 5) — International Specialty Produce, Inc., owner —
appeal rescheduled to 06/09/10 on 5/12/10 (Doc. A-446-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

728

May 19, 2010

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703

May 19, 2010

The City Record

49

Board of Control — City Planning Commission
Roof replacement at former Coast Guard Station building — per Ord. 555-09, 618-10 to R.W.
Clark Company, Inc. (BOC Res. 191-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Central Avenue, 8215 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-27-080 — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation (BOC Res. 187-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
Elevator modernization at North Point Inn — per Ord. 531-07, 1946-07, 869-08 to R.W.
Clark Company (BOC Res. 190-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
Lawndale Avenue (Ward 1) — PPN 142-25-079/082 — Elizabeth Dukes
(BOC Res. 189-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
West 6th Street, 2390 (Ward 3) — PPN 004-19-058 — Nancy Corral, trustee
(BOC Res. 188-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Lorain Avenue resurfacing (west corporation line to West 150th Street: CUY-10-8.92) —
per Ord. 2457-02, 319-09, 1786-09, 367-10 to Perk Construction Company, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 183-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Board of Control — Finance Department
Janitorial supplies — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bids rejected (BOC Res. 177-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in April 2010 — per BOC Res.
921-52 (BOC Res. 176-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Board of Control — Fire Division
FIREHOUSE records management system software — renew Contract #67048 — Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 185-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Central Avenue, 8215 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-27-080 — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation (BOC Res. 187-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
Lawndale Avenue (Ward 1) — PPN 142-25-079/082 — Elizabeth Dukes
(BOC Res. 189-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
West 6th Street, 2390 (Ward 3) — PPN 004-19-058 — Nancy Corral, trustee
(BOC Res. 188-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Auto/truck spring parts and repair — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Truck Service, Inc., d.b.a.
Cleveland Spring Service — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 180-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Cab and chassis with end dump body — per Ord. 887-06 to R & R Truck Sales, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 184-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
Case and Gradall equipment parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Southeastern
Equipment Co., Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 179-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
Fuel dispensing system maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Collins Equipment
Corporation — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 181-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
Vehicles, off road with end dump bodies — per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to Concord Road
Equipment Mfg., Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 182-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Snacks for CACFP after-school program — per Ord. 1592-09 — all bids rejected
(BOC Res. 186-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
FIREHOUSE records management system software — renew Contract #67048 —
Division of Fire, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 185-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
Training, general, remedial, developmental and technical — per Ord. 1260-06, 757-09,
1661-09 to Cuyahoga Community College — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 178-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

729

The City Record

50

May 19, 2010

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Elevator modernization at North Point Inn — per Ord. 531-07, 1946-07, 869-08 to R.W.
Clark Company — Dept. of Community Development (BOC Res. 190-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
Lorain Avenue resurfacing (west corporation line to West 150th Street: CUY-10-8.92) —
per Ord. 2457-02, 319-09, 1786-09, 367-10 to Perk Construction Company, Inc. —
Division of Engineering and Construction, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 183-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
Roof replacement at former Coast Guard Station building — per Ord. 555-09,
618-10 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — City Planning Commission
(BOC Res. 191-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
FIREHOUSE records management system software — renew Contract #67048 —
Division of Fire (BOC Res. 185-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Auto/truck spring parts and repair — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Truck Service, Inc.,
d.b.a. Cleveland Spring Service — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 180-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cab and chassis with end dump body — per Ord. 887-06 to R & R Truck Sales, Inc. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 184-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Case and Gradall equipment parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Southeastern
Equipment Co., Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 179-10) . .
Fuel dispensing system maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Collins Equipment
Corporation — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 181-10) . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue resurfacing (west corporation line to West 150th Street: CUY-10-8.92) —
per Ord. 2457-02, 319-09, 1786-09, 367-10 to Perk Construction Company, Inc. —
Division of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 183-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles, off road with end dump bodies — per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to
Concord Road Equipment Mfg., Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (BOC Res. 182-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Training, general, remedial, developmental and technical — per Ord. 1260-06, 757-09,
1661-09 to Cuyahoga Community College (BOC Res. 178-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in April 2010 — per BOC Res.
921-52 (BOC Res. 176-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Auto/truck spring parts and repair — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Truck Service, Inc., d.b.a.
Cleveland Spring Service — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 180-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cab and chassis with end dump body — per Ord. 887-06 to R & R Truck Sales, Inc. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 184-10) . . . . .
Case and Gradall equipment parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Southeastern
Equipment Co., Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 179-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fuel dispensing system maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.17 to Collins Equipment
Corporation — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 181-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles, off road with end dump bodies — per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to Concord Road
Equipment Mfg., Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 182-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 698

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bridge Avenue, 5819, (Ward 15) — Lawrence Harris, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
5/17/10 (Cal. 10-52). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brookside Boulevard, 3999, (Ward 18) — William Scott Huebler, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 5/17/10 (Cal. 10-54) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 2901-09, (Ward 3) — Richard Husarick, owner, d.b.a. A Man’s World —
appeal dismissed on 5/17/10 (Cal. 10-40) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 97th Street, 1945, (Ward 6) — Cleveland Clinic, owners — appeal heard on
5/17/10 (Cal. 10-32). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

730

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701

May 19, 2010

The City Record

51

Fleet Avenue, 7310, (Ward 12) — Mukesh Agarwal, owner — appeal postponed to 7/12/10 on
5/17/10 (Cal. 09-233). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ford Avenue, 1901, (Ward 9) — Case Western Reserve University, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 5/17/10 (Cal. 10-56) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fruit Avenue, 908, (Ward 3) — Shirley Larrison, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 5/17/10 (Cal. 10-53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Juniper Drive, 11210, (Ward 9) — Case Western Reserve University, owner —
appeal granted and adopted on 5/17/10 (Cal. 10-55) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Portage Avenue, 5792, (Ward 12) — Sam Riolo, owner — appeal dismissed on
5/17/10 (Cal. 10-57). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 11003, (Ward 9) — Maher Suleiman, owner — appeal heard on 5/17/10
(Cal. 10-58) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th Street, 1293, (Ward 3) — Velimir and Valentina Lucic, d.b.a. 1293 W 9 LLC, owner —
appeal postponed to 6/21/10 on 5/17/10 (Cal. 10-59) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodbury Avenue, 16109, (Ward 19) — Steve Evans, owner — appeal heard on
5/17/10 (Cal. 10-60). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 702

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Carnegie Avenue, 6811, (Ward 5) — David Jurek, d.b.a. Friendship Auto Sales, owner —
appeal to be heard on 6/1/10 (Cal. 10-74) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 83rd Street, 2267, (Ward 6) — Timothy Willis, owner — appeal to be heard on 6/1/10
(Cal. 10-71) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 56th Street, 3541, (Ward 15) — Jean Nasr, owner and Virginia Reynolds, tenant —
appeal to be heard on 6/1/10 (Cal. 10-66) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2379, (Ward 3) — Nancy Corral Trust, owner — appeal to be heard on
6/1/10 (Cal. 10-68). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2382, (Ward 3) — Nancy Corral Trust, owner — appeal to be heard on
6/1/10 (Cal. 10-69). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2388, (Ward 3) — Nancy Corral Trust, owner — appeal to be heard on
6/1/10 (Cal. 10-67). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 7th Street, 2387, (Ward 3) — Nancy Corral Trust, owner — appeal to be heard on
6/1/10 (Cal. 10-70). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 701

Bonds
2010 Water Bonds — water meters (O 261-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710

Bridges
Cedar Road Bridge replacement ñ consent ñ Cuyahoga Commissioners (O 652-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Building Code
Amend Sect. 623.04 — Criminal Trespass (O 1076-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708

Building and Housing Department
Demolition Program & Board-up Program — appropriate CDBG funds — Building and
Housing Department (O 517-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695

Census
Supporting the 2010 Census (R 624-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706

City Council
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — May 17th meeting (F 678-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

City of Cleveland Bids
Catch basin debris disposal — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 —
bid due June 9, 2010 (advertised 5/12/2010 and 5/19/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705
Diesel emission reduction systems for vehicles and equipment —
Department of Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport — per Ord. 1590-09 — bid due June 17, 2010
(advertised 5/12/2010 and 5/19/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705
Distribution water mains — Effingham Blvd. in City of Euclid, cleaning and
cement mortar lining of — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per Ord. 1928-07 — bid due June 10, 2010 (advertised 5/12/2010 and 5/19/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

731

The City Record

52

Fire hydrants and fire hydrant parts — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due June 11, 2010
(advertised 5/19/2010 and 5/26/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gears, large and special pinion, ring and worm — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due June 9, 2010
(advertised 5/12/2010 and 5/19/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Janitorial supplies (Re-bid) — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 —
bid due June 4, 2010 (advertised 5/12/2010 and 5/19/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MSA Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) — Department of Public Safety —
Division of Police — per Ord. 639-08 — bid due June 18, 2010
(advertised 5/12/2010 and 5/19/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) — Department of Public Safety —
Division of Police — per Ord. 639-08 — bid due June 18, 2010
(advertised 5/12/2010 and 5/19/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewer test tee inspection, installation and snaking — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 541.25 — bid due June 10, 2010
(advertised 5/12/2010 and 5/19/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transformers and accessories — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due June 9, 2010
(advertised 5/12/2010 and 5/19/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, valves, service connections and appurtenances repair (Area A) —
Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1538-09 —
bid due June 16, 2010 (advertised 5/19/2010 and 5/26/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

May 19, 2010

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706

City Planning Commission
Amend Sect. 5 of Ord. No. 555-09 — Coast Guard Station Roof (O 618-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbia Ave. (between East 102nd St. & East 105th St.) — Alice M. Dawson Way — secondary
and honorary designation — Service Dept. (Ward 08) (O 664-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th St. (south of I-90 and north of Kelso Ave.) — change from Local Retail Business
to Residence Office — Diana Ave. (southwest corner and E. 140th) change to two
family Residential and a ‘B’ Area District (Ward 10) (O 213-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gordon Square Arts District — Cleveland Improvement District (R 621-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old Brooklyn Design Review District — Henritze Ave., Pearl Rd., State Rd. & Leopold Ave.
(Ward 13) (O 461-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Seymour Ave. & W. 30th St. — Change the Use District — Two Family Residential to Residence —
Industry (Ward 14) (O 460-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting the 2010 Census (R 624-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 65th St., (between Fir Ave. & Madison Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
Two Family Residential (Ward 15) (O 368-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . 690

. . . . . . . . . . . . 704
. . . . . . . . . . . . 696
. . . . . . . . . . . . 705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 696
. . . . . . . . . . . . 706
. . . . . . . . . . . . 696

Clerk of Council
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — May 17th meeting (F 678-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Lease with Cleveland Clinic for parking spaces at Cleveland Municipal Parking Lot (O 654-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686

Cleveland Metropolitan School District
CMSD School Closing Fund (R 670-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development Programs — enter and amend contracts or memorandums of
understanding — expend funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — Com. Dev. Dept. —
Cuy. Co. — CMHA — GCRTA — NEORSD (O 509-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts — recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs for the 2009-10 school
year (O 449-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Educational, recreational and cultural programs — school buildings and recreation centers
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
(O 503-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 692

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 722
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sect(s) 135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180, 603.02, 603A.04 and 604.99 — Division of
Dog Pound (name change) to Division of Animal Control Services (O 305-10) . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect(s) 559.13 & 559.14 — Cultural Gardens (Bruot Gate & Walk to the Shakespeare
Garden and designate the Croatian Garden) (O 1715-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 395.02 — Unnecessary fire alarms and charges (O 12-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 623.04 — Criminal Trespass (O 1076-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 183.021 Land Reutilization Programs (O 658-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 605.07 — Making False Alarms (O 204-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

732

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

708
709
708
687
709

May 19, 2010

The City Record

53

Commemoration
Dawson, Alice Marie (R 692-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Communications
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — May 17th meeting
(F 678-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
Recusal — Ord. 466-10 — Council Member Joe Cimperman (Ward 03) (F 679-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

Community Development Department
Addison Rd. & Wade Park Ave. — PPN 106-03-009 / 026 / 027 — Land Reutilization Program —
Eliza Bryant Village (Ward 07) (O 411-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
Administrative expenses — appropriate CDBG and NEF funds — SAS software maintenance —
Executive Information Systems, LLC (O 507-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 722
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1566-09 — Famicos Foundation Senior Transportation Program
(Ward 8 NCF) (O 623-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Community Development Programs — enter and amend contracts or memorandums of
understanding — expend funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — CMSD —
Cuy. Co. — CMHA — GCRTA — NEORSD (O 509-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 722
Contracts — various housing development entities for housing units acquisition through
CHDO (O 657-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
Demolition Program & Board-up Program — appropriate CDBG funds — Building and
Housing Department (O 517-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
East 116th St., — PPN 129-26-006 — Land Reutilization Program — Louis Golphin (Ward 06)
(O 413-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717
East 155th St., 730 — PPN 116-09-030 — Land Reutilization Program — Most Reverend Richard
G. Lennon, Bishop of the Diocese of Cleveland (Ward 11) (O 521-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
Garden program — non-profit agencies (O 554-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
Housing Rehabilitation Programs — Section 8 HQS inspections — appropriate CDBG and Federal
HOME Program funds (O 508-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 722
Housing Trust Fund Program — various housing development entities (O 656-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
NSPI — Grant agreements — OSU & Parkworks (agriculture and park developments)
(O 466-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program — expend CDBG funds —
Aging Department (O 520-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
Superior Ave., 11002 — PPN 120-03-001 — Land Reutilization Program — Maher A. Suleiman
(Ward 09) (O 412-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717
Whittier Ave., — PPN 104-18-070 — Land Reutilization Program — Eleanor B. Rainey Memorial
Institute, Inc. (Ward 07) (O 450-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719
Whittier Ave., — PPN 104-18-070 — Land Reutilization Program — Eleanor B. Rainey Memorial
Institute, Inc. (Ward 07) (O 450-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719

Community Development Block Grant Program
Administrative expenses — appropriate CDBG and NEF funds — SAS software
maintenance — Executive Information Systems, LLC — Community Development
Department (O 507-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 722
Community Development Programs — enter and amend contracts or memorandums of
understanding — expend funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — CMSD—
Com. Dev. Dept. — Cuy. Co. — CMHA — GCRTA — NEORSD (O 509-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 722
Demolition Program & Board-up Program — appropriate CDBG funds — Building and
Housing Department (O 517-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
Housing Rehabilitation Programs — Section 8 HQS inspections — appropriate CDBG and
Federal HOME Program funds — Community Development Department
(O 508-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 722
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program — expend CDBG funds —
Aging Department (O 520-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724

Condolence Resolutions
White, Melvin James (R 683-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

Congratulations Resolutions
Case School/Windows Public Art Project (R 684-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
St. Stephen Roman Catholic Church (R 685-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

733

The City Record

54

May 19, 2010

Contracts
Administrative expenses — appropriate CDBG and NEF funds — SAS software
maintenance — Executive Information Systems, LLC — Community Development
Department (O 507-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 11 of Ord. No. 1659-08 — Energy Efficiency and Conservation Program (O 445-10). . . . . .
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 589-09 — public improvement — Runway 10-28 (O 498-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 5 of Ord. No. 555-09 — Coast Guard Station Roof (O 618-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program, 2010 — Youth Opportunities Unlimited (O 443-10) .
Clothing, work — rental and laundry (O 666-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CMSD — recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs for the 2009-10 school year (O 449-10).
Community Development — various housing development entities for housing units acquisition
through CHDO (O 657-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development Programs — enter and amend contracts or memorandums of
understanding — expend funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — CMSD—
Com. Dev. Dept. — Cuy. Co. — CMHA — GCRTA — NEORSD (O 509-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community service work — City Year (O 505-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract with One Community for internet access for the City of Cleveland buildings (O 650-10). . . .
Finance Department — Campus EAI for web hosting and license (O 649-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Football programs — city-wide — Cleveland Municipal Football Association (O 504-10) . . . . . . . . . . .
Garden program — non-profit agencies (O 554-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greenstar Pittsburgh — processing of recyclable materials (O 665-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Rehabilitation Programs — Section 8 HQS inspections — appropriate CDBG and Federal
HOME Program funds — Community Development Department (O 508-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Trust Fund Program — various housing development entities (O 656-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional service to collect, analyze, sample, recycle & dispose of aircraft deicing
fluid — maintain and monitor valves — repeal Ord. No. 762-09 (O 446-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreational services — administering and facilitating — Recreation Division —
Salvation Army (Ward 11) (O 506-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Siemens Building Technologies — maintenance of Building Automation System (O 447-10) . . . . . . . .
Sterling Telecom Office Building LLC — Amend Contract No. 64214 (O 660-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
URS Corp. — Amend Contract No. 63915 — complete remediation work on the Midland Steel site
(O 661-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

722
718
720
726
718
689
719

. . . . . . . . . . . 687

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

722
721
684
684
721
695
689

. . . . . . . . . . . 722
. . . . . . . . . . . 687
. . . . . . . . . . . 718
. . . . . . . . . . . 721
. . . . . . . . . . . 718
. . . . . . . . . . . 688
. . . . . . . . . . . 689

Convention Center
Amend lease agreement between the City of Cleveland & Nehst Creations, LLC for Convention
Center use (O 653-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Amend Sect(s) 1 & 8 of Ord. No. 683-09 — Convention Center, Malls B & C sale to the County
for Medical Mart Facility (O 655-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686

Cuyahoga County
Cedar Road Bridge replacement ñ consent ñ Cuyahoga Commissioners (O 652-10)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Safety Department — agreements — Ameritrust Bldg. for training purposes (O 410-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Dog Pound Division
Amend Sect(s) 135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180, 603.02, 603A.04 and 604.99 — Division of
Dog Pound (name change) to Division of Animal Control Services (O 305-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714

Economic Development Department
Amend Ord. No. 700-08 — Trinity Property (transfer, lease & sale) (O 662-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
EPA — Grant — redevelop Midtown Innovative area (O 659-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sterling Telecom Office Building LLC — Amend Contract No. 64214 (O 660-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
URS Corp. — Amend Contract No. 63915 — complete remediation work on the Midland Steel site
(O 661-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 689
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 689

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Grant — redevelop Midtown Innovative area (O 659-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688

Emergency Medical Service Division
Agreement with the Village of Linndale — EMS Services (O 455-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719

Famicos Foundation
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1566-09 — Famicos Foundation Senior Transportation Program
(Ward 8 NCF) (O 623-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

734

May 19, 2010

The City Record

55

Finance Department
Clothing, work — rental and laundry (O 666-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 689
CMSD — contracts — recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs for the 2009-10
school year (O 449-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719
Contract — Campus EAI for web hosting and license (O 649-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Contract with One Community for internet access for the City of Cleveland buildings
(O 650-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Sunpu-Opto Semiconductor, Ltd — agreement (O 496-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695-696
Water Bonds, 2010 — water meters (O 261-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710

Fire Division
Safety Department — agreements — Cuy. Co. — Ameritrust Bldg. for training purposes (O 410-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . 716

Grants
Amend Sect. 5 of Ord. No. 480-09 — Waste-to-Energy facility (O 651-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
EPA — Grant — redevelop Midtown Innovative area (O 659-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
NSPI — Grant agreements — OSU & Parkworks (agriculture and park developments) (O 466-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695

Health Department
Slavic Village Development Corp — agreement — Noise Abatement Survey Study (Ward 12 NCF)
(O 676-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691

House Bill
Urging Ohio General Assembly to introduce legislation similar to Illinois HB0363 (R 677-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Immigrants
Comprehensive Immigration Reform — opposing Arizona’s Senate Bill 1070 (R 675-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Land Reutilization Program
Addison Rd. & Wade Park Ave. — PPN 106-03-009 / 026 / 027 — Eliza Bryant Village
(Ward 07) (O 411-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
Amend Section 183.021 Land Reutilization Programs (O 658-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
East 116th St., — PPN 129-26-006 — Louis Golphin (Ward 06) (O 413-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717
East 155th St., 730 — PPN 116-09-030 — Most Reverend Richard G. Lennon, Bishop of
the Diocese of Cleveland (Ward 11) (O 521-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
Superior Ave., 11002 — PPN 120-03-001 — Maher A. Suleiman (Ward 09) (O 412-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717
Whittier Ave., — PPN 104-18-070 — Eleanor B. Rainey Memorial Institute, Inc. (Ward 07)
(O 450-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719
Whittier Ave., — PPN 104-18-070 — Eleanor B. Rainey Memorial Institute, Inc. (Ward 07)
(O 450-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719

Lease
Amend Ord. No. 700-08 — Trinity Property (transfer, lease & sale) (O 662-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 689
Seneca Golf Course and adjacent property to Cleveland Metroparks (O 266-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695

Lease Agreement
Amend lease agreement between the City of Cleveland & Nehst Creations, LLC for Convention
Center use (O 653-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

Lease by Way of Concession
Amend Sect. 10 of Ord. No. 808-09 — Downtown Bike Station (Gateway North Garage) (O 617-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726

Liquor Permits
Almira Ave., 9806-08 (1st. fl.) — transfer of ownership application (Ward 16) (F 681-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
East 2nd St., 2121-23 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 671-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 692
Murray Hill Rd., 2072 — new application (Ward 09) (F 680-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
Superior Ave., 526 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 672-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 692
Superior Ave., 9108 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 07) (R 628-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708

735

The City Record

56

May 19, 2010

Sycamore St., 2000 (Unit 121) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03)
(R 673-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Warren Rd., 3314 — stock transfer application (Ward 19) (F 682-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
West 130th St., 4281 — objection to issuance (Ward 17) (R 625-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
West 6th St., 1313 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 626-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
West 9th St., 1382 (1st. fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 627-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707

Loans
Sterling Telecom Office Building LLC — Amend Contract No. 64214 (O 660-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
Cleveland Public Theatre Rehabilitation Project (R 674-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693

Marathons
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 16th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
(O 616-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Administrative expenses — appropriate CDBG and NEF funds — SAS software maintenance —
Executive Information Systems, LLC — Community Development Department
(O 507-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 722

Parking
Lease with Cleveland Clinic for parking spaces at Cleveland Municipal Parking Lot
(O 654-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Amend lease agreement between the City of Cleveland & Nehst Creations, LLC for Convention
Center use (O 653-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Amend Sect(s) 1 & 8 of Ord. No. 683-09 — Convention Center, Malls B & C sale to the County
for Medical Mart Facility (O 655-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686
Amend Sect(s) 559.13 & 559.14 — Cultural Gardens (Bruot Gate & Walk to the Shakespeare
Garden and designate the Croatian Garden) (O 1715-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Amend Sect. 10 of Ord. No. 808-09 — Downtown Bike Station (Gateway North Garage) (O 617-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
CMSD — contracts — recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs for the 2009-10
school year (O 449-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719
Community service work — City Year (O 505-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721
Educational, recreational and cultural programs — school buildings and recreation centers —
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — CSMD (O 503-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721
Football programs — city-wide — Cleveland Municipal Football Association (O 504-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721
Lease Seneca Golf Course and adjacent property to Cleveland Metroparks (O 266-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
Lease with Cleveland Clinic for parking spaces at Cleveland Municipal Parking Lot (O 654-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686
Recreational services — administering and facilitating — Recreation Division — Salvation
Army (Ward 11) (O 506-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721
Security services, armed — recreation facilities (O 502-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 720

Permits
Aetna Race for Kids — June 20th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03) (O 611-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
American Lung Association’s Annual Walk — May 22nd — American Lung Association
(O 612-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
Burten, Bell, Carr Development — East 55th & Scovill (near East Tech) — May 25 to June
28 — Ward 5 Family Festival — Service Dept. (Ward 05) (O 667-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691
Crohns & Colitis Walk — June 19th — Crohns & Colitis Foundation (O 613-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — May 16th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 616-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
Westside Catholic Center Run — June 12th — Hermes Sports & Events (O 614-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725

Port Control Department
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 589-09 — public improvement contract — Runway 10-28
(O 498-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 720
Professional service to collect, analyze, sample, recycle & dispose of aircraft deicing
fluid — maintain and monitor valves — repeal Ord. No. 762-09 (O 446-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 718
Siemens Building Technologies — contracts — maintenance of Building Automation
System (O 447-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 718

736

May 19, 2010

The City Record

57

Professional Services
Amend Sect. 10 of Ord. No. 808-09 — Downtown Bike Station (Gateway North Garage)
(O 617-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Amend Sect. 5 of Ord. No. 480-09 — Waste-to-Energy facility (O 651-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Collect, analyze, sample, recycle & dispose of aircraft deicing fluid — maintain and
monitor valves — repeal Ord. No. 762-09 (O 446-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 718
Contract with One Community for internet access for the City of Cleveland buildings
(O 650-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Finance Department — contract — Campus EAI for web hosting and license (O 649-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Security services, armed — recreation facilities (O 502-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 720
Utilities Dept. — computer software and services for energy data management system
(O 456-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 720

Public Hearing (Notices)
East 140th St. (south of I-90 and north of Kelso Ave.) — change from Local Retail Business
to Residence Office — Diana Ave. (southwest corner and E. 140th) change to two
family Residential and a ‘B’ Area District (Ward 10) (O 213-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Old Brooklyn Design Review District — Henritze Ave., Pearl Rd., State Rd. & Leopold Ave. —
City Planning Commission (Ward 13) (O 461-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

Public Improvements
Amend Sect. 5 of Ord. No. 555-09 — Coast Guard Station Roof (O 618-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Amend Sect. 10 of Ord. No. 808-09 — Downtown Bike Station (Gateway North Garage) (O 617-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Amend title & Sect(s) 1,2,3,4,7,8 of Ord. No. 775-07 — Automatic Water Meter Reading
Program (O 513-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 723
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 589-09 — contract — Runway 10-28 (O 498-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 720
Cedar Road Bridge replacement ñ consent ñ Cuyahoga Commissioners (O 652-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Recognition Resolutions
Maribor Rotary Club (R 687-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
National Emergency Medical Services Week 2010 (R 686-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
The Huber-Westfall Garden (R 688-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Recusals
Recusal — Ord. 466-10 — Council Member Joe Cimperman (Ward 03) (F 679-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

Resolution of Support
Amend Res. 566-10 — Euclid Tech Center Project (R 669-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691
Cleveland Public Theatre Rehabilitation Project (R 674-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Comprehensive Immigration Reform — opposing Arizona’s Senate Bill 1070 (R 675-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Gordon Square Arts District — Cleveland Improvement District (R 621-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
Supporting the 2010 Census (R 624-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706
Urging Ohio General Assembly to introduce legislation similar to Illinois HB0363 (R 677-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
CMSD School Closing Fund (R 670-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 692
Comprehensive Immigration Reform — opposing Arizona’s Senate Bill 1070 (R 675-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Urging Ohio General Assembly to introduce legislation similar to Illinois HB0363 (R 677-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Ridge Road Transfer Station
Amend Sect. 5 of Ord. No. 480-09 — Waste-to-Energy facility (O 651-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Safety Department
Agreement with the Village of Linndale — EMS Services (O 455-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719
Agreements — Cuy. Co. — Ameritrust Bldg. for training purposes (O 410-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
Amend Sect(s) 135.16, 135.17, 135.18, 135.180, 603.02, 603A.04 and 604.99 — Division of
Dog Pound (name change) to Division of Animal Control Services (O 305-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 714
Amend Sect. 395.02 — Unnecessary fire alarms and charges (O 12-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709
Amend Sect. 623.04 — Criminal Trespass (O 1076-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Amend Section 605.07 — Making False Alarms (O 204-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709

737

The City Record

58

May 19, 2010

Salvation Army
Recreational services — administering and facilitating — Recreation Division (Ward 11)
(O 506-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721

Senate Bills
Comprehensive Immigration Reform — opposing Arizona’s Senate Bill 1070 (R 675-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694

Seneca Golf Course
Lease Seneca Golf Course and adjacent property to Cleveland Metroparks
(O 266-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695

Service Department
Aetna Race for Kids — permit — June 20th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03)
(O 611-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
American Lung Association’s Annual Walk — permit — May 22nd — American Lung Association
(O 612-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
Burten, Bell, Carr Development — East 55th & Scovill (near East Tech) — May 25 to June
28 — Ward 5 Family Festival (Ward 05) (O 667-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691
Cedar Road Bridge replacement ñ consent ñ Cuyahoga Commissioners (O 652-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684

Columbia Ave. (between East 102nd St. & East 105th St.) — Alice M. Dawson Way — secondary
and honorary designation — City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 664-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 690
Consent agreement and cause payment for Lakefront pedestrian tunnels (O 663-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 690
Crohns & Colitis Walk — permit — June 19th — Crohns & Colitis Foundation (O 613-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
Greenstar Pittsburgh — contracts — processing of recyclable materials (O 665-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 689
Hessler Street Fair — banner — Ford Dr. — May 10th thru May 30th — Hessler Neighborhood
Assoc. — Service Dept. (Ward 09) (O 615-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 16th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 616-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
Sagrada Familia Church — Detroit Ave. — banners — June 1 to June 30th — Church Festival
(Ward 15) (O 668-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691
Westside Catholic Center Run — permit — June 12th — Hermes Sports & Events (O 614-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725

Slavic Village Development Corporation
Agreement — Noise Abatement Survey Study (Ward 12 NCF) (O 676-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691

Streets — Name
Columbia Ave. (between East 102nd St. & East 105th St.) — Alice M. Dawson Way — secondary
and honorary designation — City Planning Commission — Service Dept. (Ward 08)
(O 664-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 690

Utilities Department
Amend Sect. 11 of Ord. No. 1659-08 — Energy Efficiency and Conservation Program
(O 445-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 718
Amend Sect. 5 of Ord. No. 480-09 — Waste-to-Energy facility (O 651-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Amend title & Sect(s) 1,2,3,4,7 ,8 of Ord. No. 775-07 — Automatic Water Meter
Reading Program (O 513-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 723
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program, 2010 — contract — Youth Opportunities Unlimited
(O 443-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 718
Professional services — computer software and services for energy data management system
(O 456-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 720
Water Bonds, 2010 — water meters (O 261-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710

Walk / Runs
Aetna Race for Kids — permit — June 20th — Hermes Sports & Events (Ward 03)
(O 611-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
American Lung Association’s Annual Walk — permit — May 22nd — American Lung Association
(O 612-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
Crohns & Colitis Walk — permit — June 19th — Crohns & Colitis Foundation
(O 613-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
Westside Catholic Center Run — permit — June 12th — Hermes Sports & Events
(O 614-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725

738

May 19, 2010

The City Record

59

Ward 03
Aetna Race for Kids — permit — June 20th — Hermes Sports & Events (O 611-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
American Lung Association’s Annual Walk — permit — May 22nd — American Lung Association
(O 612-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crohns & Colitis Walk — permit — June 19th — Crohns & Colitis Foundation (O 613-10) . . . . . . . . . .
East 2nd St., 2121-23 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 671-10). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Maribor Rotary Club — recognition (R 687-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recusal — Ord. 466-10 — Council Member Joe Cimperman (F 679-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 16th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 616-10) . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 526 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 672-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sycamore St., 2000 (Unit 121) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 673-10). . . . .
West 6th St., 1313 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 626-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1382 (1st. fl.) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 627-10) . . . . . . .
Westside Catholic Center Run — permit — June 12th — Hermes Sports & Events (O 614-10). . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 724
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

724
725
692
684
683
725
692
693
707
707
725

Ward 05
Amend Res. 566-10 — Euclid Tech Center Project (R 669-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691
Burten, Bell, Carr Development — East 55th & Scovill (near East Tech) — May 25 to June
28 — Ward 5 Family Festival — Service Dept. (O 667-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691

Ward 06
East 116th St., — PPN 129-26-006 — Land Reutilization Program — Louis Golphin (O 413-10)
Collins, Rose — appreciation (R 689-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ford, Bettie — appreciation (R 690-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 16th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 616-10) .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

717
684
684
725

Ward 07
Addison Rd. & Wade Park Ave. — PPN 106-03-009 / 026 / 027 — Land Reutilization Program —
Eliza Bryant Village (O 411-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 716
Superior Ave., 9108 — objection to transfer of ownership (R 628-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Whittier Ave., — PPN 104-18-070 — Land Reutilization Program — Eleanor B. Rainey Memorial
Institute, Inc. (Ward 07) (O 450-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719

Ward 08
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1566-09 — Famicos Foundation Senior Transportation Program
(Ward 8 NCF) (O 623-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Case School/Windows Public Art Project — congratulations (R 684-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbia Ave. (between East 102nd St. & East 105th St.) — Alice M. Dawson Way — secondary
and honorary designation — City Planning Commission — Service Dept. (O 664-10). . . . . . . .
Dawson, Alice Marie — commemoration (R 692-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 16th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 616-10) . . . . .
The Huber-Westfall Garden — recognition (R 688-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
White, Melvin James — condolence (R 683-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

690
684
725
684
683

Ward 09
Hessler Street Fair — banner — Ford Dr. — May 10th thru May 30th — Hessler Neighborhood
Assoc. — Service Dept. (O 615-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Murray Hill Rd., 2072 — new application — liquor permit (F 680-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 16th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 616-10) . . .
Superior Ave., 11002 — PPN 120-03-001 — Land Reutilization Program — Maher A. Suleiman
(O 412-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 717

Ward 10
Cedar Road Bridge replacement ñ consent ñ Cuyahoga Commissioners (O 652-10)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
East 140th St. (south of I-90 and north of Kelso Ave.) — change from Local Retail Business
to Residence Office — Diana Ave. (southwest corner and E. 140th) change to two
family Residential and a ‘B’ Area District (O 213-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704

Ward 11
Crohns & Colitis Walk — permit — June 19th — Crohns & Colitis Foundation (O 613-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
East 155th St., 730 — PPN 116-09-030 — Land Reutilization Program — Most Reverend Richard
G. Lennon, Bishop of the Diocese of Cleveland (O 521-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 724
Recreational services — administering and facilitating — Recreation Division — Salvation
Army (O 506-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721

739

The City Record

60

May 19, 2010

Ward 12
Ertle II, Karl J. — appreciation (R 691-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Slavic Village Development Corp — agreement — Noise Abatement Survey Study (Ward 12 NCF)
(O 676-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691

Ward 13
Old Brooklyn Design Review District — Henritze Ave., Pearl Rd., State Rd. & Leopold Ave. —
City Planning Commission (O 461-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705

Ward 14
National Emergency Medical Services Week 2010 — recognition (R 686-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 16th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 616-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
Seymour Ave. & W. 30th St. — Change the Use District — Two Family Residential to Residence —
Industry — City Planning Commission (O 460-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696

Ward 15
Amend Sect. 5 of Ord. No. 555-09 — Coast Guard Station Roof (O 618-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Cleveland Public Theatre Rehabilitation Project (R 674-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 693
Consent agreement and cause payment for Lakefront pedestrian tunnels (O 663-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 690
Gordon Square Arts District — Cleveland Improvement District (R 621-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 16th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 616-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725
Sagrada Familia Church — Detroit Ave. — banners — June 1 to June 30th — Church Festival
(O 668-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 691
St. Stephen Roman Catholic Church — congratulations (R 685-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684
W. 65th St., (between Fir Ave. & Madison Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
Two Family Residential — City Planning Commission (O 368-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696

Ward 16
Almira Ave., 9806-08 (1st. fl.) — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 681-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 16th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 616-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725

Ward 17
West 130th St., 4281 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 625-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 706

Ward 18
Rite Aid Cleveland Marathon — permit — May 16th — Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 616-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 725

Ward 19
Warren Rd., 3314 — stock transfer application — liquor permit (F 682-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 683

Water Division
Amend title & Sect(s) 1,2,3,4,7 ,8 of Ord. No. 775-07 — Automatic Water Meter Reading Program
(O 513-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 723

Water Mains
Amend title & Sect(s) 1,2,3,4,7 ,8 of Ord. No. 775-07 — Automatic Water Meter Reading Program
(O 513-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 723

Zoning
East 140th St. (south of I-90 and north of Kelso Ave.) — change from Local Retail Business
to Residence Office — Diana Ave. (southwest corner and E. 140th) change to two
family Residential and a ‘B’ Area District (Ward 10) (O 213-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Old Brooklyn Design Review District — Henritze Ave., Pearl Rd., State Rd. & Leopold Ave. —
City Planning Commission (Ward 13) (O 461-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705
Seymour Ave. & W. 30th St. — Change the Use District — Two Family Residential to Residence —
Industry — City Planning Commission (Ward 14) (O 460-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696
W. 65th St., (between Fir Ave. & Madison Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height Districts —
Two Family Residential — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 368-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696

740

