The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

September the Twenty-Ninth, Two Thousand and Ten

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
17
18
20
23
24
24
24
25
25
33
33

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
Name Residence
1 Terrell H. Pruitt 3877 East 189th Street 44122
2 Zachary Reed 3734 East 149th Street 44120
3 Joe Cimperman P.O. Box 91688 44101
4 Kenneth L. Johnson 2948 Hampton Road 44120
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland 2369 East 36th Street 44105
6 Mamie J. Mitchell 12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712 44120
7 TJ Dow 7715 Decker Avenue 44103
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson 9024 Parkgate Avenue 44108
9 Kevin Conwell 10647 Ashbury Avenue 44106
10 Eugene R. Miller 13615 Kelso Avenue 44110
11 Michael D. Polensek 17855 Brian Avenue 44119
12 Anthony Brancatelli 6924 Ottawa Road 44105
13 Kevin J. Kelley 5904 Parkridge Avenue 44144
14 Brian J. Cummins 3104 Mapledale Avenue 44109
15 Matthew Zone 1228 West 69th Street 44102
16 Jay Westbrook 1278 West 103rd Street 44102
17 Dona Brady 1272 West Boulevard 44102
18 Martin J. Sweeney 3632 West 133rd Street 44111
19 Martin J. Keane 15907 Colletta Lane 44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Pam Benjamin, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – _________, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole D.West, Interim Director, Room
121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – John D. Mahone, Interim Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman _______, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael Nelson,
Sr., Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Michael Flickinger, Pastor
Gregory Jordan.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair; Laura
M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey, Allan
Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine 15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy 12B
Judge Emanuella Groves 13A
Judge Michelle D. Earley 12A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan 12C
Judge Angela R. Stokes 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2010

Vol. 97

No. 5051

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2010
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, September 27, 2010
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff, Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer, Valarie J. McCall, Chief
of Government Affairs, Chris Warren, Chief of Regional Development,
Monyka S. Price, Chief of Education,
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of
Public Affairs, Andrea V. Taylor,
Press Secretary, Andrew Watterson,
Chief of Sustainability, and Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Griffin,
West, Fumich, Brown, Interim Director John D. Mahone, Lucille Ambroz,
Secretary, Civil Service Commission,
and Teresa Stevenson of Legislative
Affairs.

9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.

Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection.
Pledge of Allegiance.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Mitchell.
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
OF LIQUOR CONTROL

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

File No. 1297-10.
Re: #0683825 — D5J D6 New Application – BFR Ventures, LTD, d.b.a.
Corks at Play House Square, 1415
Euclid Avenue. (Ward 3). Received.

1503

File No. 1298-10.
Re: #1918454 — D1, D2, D3, D3A,
D6 Transfer of Ownership and Location Application – Daniel M. Miller,
Inc., 1301 East 9th Street. (Ward 3).
Received.

File No. 1299-10.
Re: #034788 — D5 Transfer of
Ownership and Location Application
– BDP Entertainment, LLC, d.b.a.
Grayton Road Tavern, Units 5, 6, 7,
4760 Grayton Road. (Ward 18).
Received.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 1300-10.
From Bruce Cutlip — Lieutenant,
Division of Police. Received.
File No. 1301-10.
From Jose Delgado — Sergeant,
Division of Police. Received.
File No. 1302-10.
From Neil Hutchinson — Sergeant,
Division of Police. Received.
File No. 1303-10.
From Michael Lawrence — Sergeant, Division of Police. Received.
File No. 1304-10.
From Lisa Steel – Sergeant, Division of Police. Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1305-10—Jerry Thomas
Mitchell.
Res. No. 1306-10—Gerald A. “Jerry”
DePiero.
Res. No. 1307-10—Sgt. Martin Stanton.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1308-10—Terry Ross.
Res. No. 1309-10—Ralph Bodziony.
Res. No. 1310-10—Kathy Boll.
Res. No. 1311-10—Michael Polichuk.
Res. No. 1312-10—Dennis G. Terez.
Res. No. 1313-10—Det. Joseph J.
Chojnowski, Badge #187.
Res. No. 1314-10—Jack A. Staph.
Res. No. 1315-10—Old Brooklyn
Community School.
Res. No. 1316-10—Old Brooklyn
Community Elementary School.
Res. No. 1317-10—William Cullen
Bryant Elementary School.
Res. No. 1318-10—Benjamin Franklin
Elementary School.

The City Record

4
RESOLUTION OF RECOGNITION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1319-10—Fugitive Safe
Surrender Program.
Res. No. 1320-10—“Cleveland, City
of Peace and Non-Violence” initiative.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1284-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Kelley and Keane.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new
Sections
692B.01
through
692B.15 and 692B.99 relating to
Sweepstakes Terminal Cafes.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new
Sections
692B.01
through
692B.15 thereof, to read as follows:
Section 692B.01 Title, Purpose and
Objectives
(a) Title. This chapter shall be
known and may be cited as “Sweepstakes Terminal Café”.
(b) Purpose and Objective. The
purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for licensing, regulation and control of computerized
sweepstakes devices and sweepstakes
terminal
cafes
and
the
premises upon which they are located and operated for purpose of
entertainment of the public. The
objectives of this chapter are to prevent safety and fire hazards, disturbances, disruption of pedestrian
traffic, disorderly assemblies, theft
of personal property, and gambling
within the City.
Section 692B.02 Definitions
As used in this chapter,
(a) “Commissioner” means the
Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses.
(b)
“Computerized
sweepstakes
device”
means
any
computer,
machine, game or apparatus which,
upon the insertion of a coin, plate,
disc, plug, key, card, token, or similar object, and/or upon payment of
a fee or anything of value, wherein
a product or service is provided, and
operates or may be operated by the
public generally for use as a game,
contest of skill, entertainment, or
amusement, and which in no way
tends to encourage gambling. “Computerized sweepstakes device” shall
not include mechanically produced
music, as regulated by Chapter 692,
coin operated amusement devices as
regulated by Chapter 692A, billiard
or pool tables as regulated by Chapter 688 and Adult Video Arcades and
Adult Live Entertainment Arcades
as regulated by Chapter 237.
(c) “Sweepstakes terminal café”
means an individual building or
premises in which any computerized
sweepstakes device is located for
the use or entertainment of the public, whether or not such premises
have other business purposes of any
nature whatsoever.

(d) “Premises” means the building
or portion of building used to conduct or operate a sweepstakes terminal café.
(e) “Licensee” means the person
or persons who sign an application
for a license and to whom the
license is issued.
(f) “Operator” means any person
having authority to control the
premises where any computerized
sweepstakes device is located or
who operates a sweepstakes terminal café area.
(g) “Owner” means any person
who possesses a pecuniary interest,
either directly or indirectly, or twenty-five percent (25%) or more in a
computerized
sweepstakes
device
business or an amusement device
business.
(h) “Residential District” means
any residential district in the City
as defined in the Zoning Code.
(i) “School” means any education
institution,
private,
secular
or
parochial, which offers instruction
to preschool age children, elementary through high school education,
and/or colleges and universities of
higher education, technical schools,
arts and music schools and other
specialty schools, and includes day
care operations.
(j) “Day Care” has the same meaning as under Chapter 227 of the Codified Ordinances.
Section 692B.03 Licenses Required.
(a)
Computerized
Sweepstakes
Device License.
No person shall display or allow
the use of any computerized sweepstakes device without having first
a
computerized
sweepobtained
stakes device license as provided in
this chapter. A separate license is
required
for
each
computerized
sweepstakes device.
(b) Sweepstakes Terminal Café
License.
No person shall conduct or operate
a sweepstakes terminal café without
having first obtained a sweepstakes
terminal café license as provided in
this chapter.
Section 692B.04 License Fees
(a)
Computerized
Sweepstakes
Devices. The fee for each computerized
sweepstakes
device
license
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per
device, per month.
(b) Sweepstakes Terminal Cafes.
The fee for a sweepstakes terminal
café license shall be ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) every six months.
(c) Replacement license. The fee
for a replacement license shall be
fifteen dollars ($15.00).
(d) Filed with Application. All
fees required under this chapter
shall be filed with the application
of the license.
(e) Return of Fee. In the event an
application is denied under this
chapter, one-half of the license fees,
less any costs incurred for reports
and investigations, shall be returned
to the applicant. No portion of the
license or application fee shall be
returned to the owner should the
license be suspended or revoked.
Section 692B.05

Licenses General-

ly
(a) Each license required by this
chapter shall be a bi-annual license,
covering a period from January 1
through May 31 and June 1 through

1504

September 29, 2010
December 31, unless earlier suspended or revoked.
(b) Each license required by this
chapter shall vest a personal privilege but not any property rights in
the licensee.
(c) Each license issued under this
chapter shall be permanently and
conspicuously
displayed
on
the
premises for which it is issued.
(d) Each license issued under this
chapter shall be in the name of the
applicant and is neither assignable
nor transferable, either as to person,
business or location.
(e) Each license issued under this
chapter that is lost, destroyed or
mutilated may be replaced if application for replacement is made within thirty 30 days of the loss, destruction or mutilation. Such replacement
license
shall
bear
the
word
“Replacement” across its face and
shall have the same license information and number as the license it
replaces.
(f)
Computerized
Sweepstakes
Device Licenses.
(1) One computerized sweepstakes
device license shall be issued for
each individual computerized sweepstakes device and shall specify the
name and address of the licensee,
and the manufacturer, model number and serial number of the computerized sweepstakes device for
which it was issued.
(2) Each license shall become
invalid if the computerized sweepstakes device is replaced or moved
to another location not specifically
stated on the license.
(3) Any license that is changed,
mutilated, erased or defaced in any
manner is invalid and the computerized sweepstakes device which the
license purports to authorize shall
be deemed unlicensed and may be
removed or taken out of service.
(4) Any additional computerized
sweepstakes device(s) added to the
premises
after
issuance
of
the
sweepstakes terminal café license
must be licensed within seven (7)
days pursuant to this chapter.
(g) Sweepstakes Terminal Café
Licenses.
(1) One sweepstakes terminal café
license shall be issued for each
sweepstakes terminal café business
at an individual premise, and shall
specify the name and address of the
licensee,
and
the
manufacturer,
model number and serial number of
each
computerized
sweepstakes
device located at the premises for
which it was issued.
(2) Change(s) or variation(s) to
the
sweepstakes
terminal
café
license as originally issued will
invalidate the sweepstakes terminal
café license.
(3) Any additional computerized
sweepstakes device(s) added to the
premises after the issuance of the
sweepstakes terminal café license
and not licensed within seven (7)
days pursuant to this chapter is
cause for revocation of the sweepstakes terminal café license.
Section 692B.06
Applications for
Licenses
(a) Applications for the licenses
required by this chapter shall be
made to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses on forms to be
prescribed by the Commissioner.
(b)
All
applications
shall
be
signed by the owner or owners,
including all partners in the case of
a partnership and all officers and

September 29, 2010
directors in the case of a corporation.
(c) In the event no person owns
25% or more of the sweepstakes terminal café, such application shall be
signed by an authorized representative of the sweepstakes terminal
café.
(d) All applications shall contain
a statement that the information
contained in the application is complete, accurate and truthful to the
best knowledge of all applicants.
(e) Every owner and operator of
the sweepstakes terminal café shall
be fingerprinted by the Cleveland
Police Department. The costs associated with obtaining the fingerprints of the owners and operators
shall be borne by those owners and
operators.
(f) All applications shall contain
the following, as to each owner:
(1) Name and home address (no
post office boxes), age and birth
date;
(2) Business and home telephone
numbers;
(3) Employment history for the
past five years;
(4) A statement as to whether the
owner has been convicted of any
crime other than traffic offenses
and, if so, the date and place of conviction, the nature of the offense
and the penalty imposed;
(5) A statement as to whether the
owner has ever conducted a sweepstakes terminal café and, if so,
when, where and for how long;
(6) A description of the nature
and operation of the main type of
business activity to be conducted
upon the premises for which the
license is sought;
(7) A description of the nature
and operation of any business to be
conducted in conjunction with the
sweepstakes terminal café and the
anticipated percentage of gross revenue to be derived from each respective business;
(8) The address (no post office
boxes) and telephone number of the
premises for which the license is
sought, and of the business if different from the premises;
(9) A statement as to whether the
owner will directly operate the
sweepstakes
terminal
café
or
whether or not an operator who is
not an owner will operate it and, if
the latter, the application shall contain information required by this
section supplied in detail as to each
such operator;
(10) A floor plan of the premises,
including adjoining properties showing the location of all buildings
located on the adjoining properties
and use of adjoining properties,
including parking facilities drawn
to scale by a registered architect.
Applicant’s plan shall include the
square footage for the area utilized
for placement of the computerized
sweepstakes devices, exit locations
and sizes, window size, windows,
storage
spaces,
bicycle
storage
racks and off-street parking that
will be utilized for the sweepstakes
terminal café;
(11) A map showing all schools,
day cares, playgrounds, parks and
or other businesses as may be
deemed necessary by the Commissioner, within a radius of 1,000 feet
of the premises, and including all
churches located within a radius of
500 feet of the premises;
(12) The name, address and telephone number of the agent of the
business upon whom service of

The City Record
process can effectively and validly
be made;
(13) The number, type, name,
model and manufacturer’s serial
number of each computerized sweepdevice
requested
to
be
stakes
licensed;
(14) Specification of terms of
agreement governing the acquisition
and installation of each computerized sweepstakes device requested
to be licensed;
(15) A description of the nature
and type of property or services
which will be sold or supplied on
the premises;
(16) A copy of the title or lease
to the premises;
(17) A copy of the Article of Incorporation, if the owner is a corporation;
(18) A copy of the Operating
Agreement, if the owner is a limited liability corporation;
(19) A copy of the Partnership
Agreement, if the owner is a partnership;
(20) Specification of the days of
the week and the hours of the day
during which the licensed activity
will be conducted; and
(21) Any other information as
may be deemed reasonably necessary by the Commissioner.
Section
692B.07
Issuance
of
Licenses
(a)
All
applications
properly
received by the Commissioner shall
be forwarded to the Director of Public Safety and the Director of Building and Housing for their approval
within 7 days of receipt of application by the Commissioner.
(b) The Director of Public Safety
or the Director of Building and
Housing, as appropriate, shall determine that the following prerequisites to the issuance of a license
have been established:
(1) The owner(s) and/or operator(s) have not been convicted within the previous five (5) years of a
felony, a misdemeanor involving
minors, a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude or a crime of violence, or a misdemeanor involving
gambling activity, controlled substances or alcoholic beverages;
(2) A license properly issued to
the applicant has not been revoked
or forfeited within the previous five
(5) years;
(3) The location, structure, placement, wiring and connections of the
computerized sweepstakes devices
covered by the application are suitable under the requirements of the
Building Code, the Zoning Code and
this chapter, and all required inspection fees have been paid to the city;
and
(4) The building or premises in
which the sweepstakes terminal
café is located, and the location of
the sweepstakes terminal café, is in
compliance with all requirements of
the Building Code, the Zoning Code
and this chapter and all required
inspection fees have been paid to
the City.
(c) The Directors of Public Safety and of Building and Housing
shall endorse on each application
their approval or disapproval with
reasons for any disapproval and
return the same to the Commissioner within thirty (30) days of receiving the application. Within fourteen
(14) days of approval or denial by
the Directors of Public Safety and

1505

5
Building and Housing, and payment
of the license fees, the Commissioner shall either approve or deny the
license pursuant to this chapter.
Section 692.08 Renewal of License
Every computerized sweepstakes
device license and sweepstakes terminal cafe license shall be renewed
bi-annually in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter. At the
time of the renewal, the applicant
shall file with the Commissioner a
statement that all information listed
on the original application for the
license is still complete, accurate
and truthful to the best of his or her
knowledge, or a statement listing
any and all changes since the original application. The statement shall
be signed by the original signers of
the original license application. The
Commissioner
shall
determine
whether to accept such renewal
statement and renew the licenses or
whether to require a new application pursuant to this chapter.
Section 692B.09 Denial of Sweepstakes Terminal Café License
The Commissioner shall not issue
or renew a sweepstakes terminal
café license for any business or
premises:
(a) Where the premises are located in any residential district in the
city;
(b) Where any of the owners or
operators have been convicted within the last five years of any felony,
a misdemeanor involving minors, a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or a crime of violence, or a misdemeanor involving any gambling
activity, controlled substances or
alcoholic beverages;
(c) Where the premises do not
specifically designate at least 30
gross square feet of floor area for
each
computerized
sweepstakes
device to be located upon the
premises, excluding areas used for
other principal uses;
(d) Where the premises do not
provide a minimum of 35 off-street
parking places, or 1 parking space
for every 2 computerized sweepstake devices, whichever is greater;
(e) Where the premises are located within 1,000 feet of any school,
playground, daycare, public park or
other sweepstakes terminal café, or
within 500 feet of any church;
(f) Where it is determined that
the premises or operation would be
in violation of any provision of the
Building Code, the Zoning Code or
the Fire Code or any other pertinent
provisions of local, state or federal
law;
(g) Where the applicant made a
false statement as to a material
matter on the application or in a
hearing concerning the license;
(h) Where the application failed
to provide all the required information; or
(i) Where the owner, operator
and/or applicant fails to comply
with all terms and conditions under
this chapter and all other applicable
ordinances, laws, rules or regulations.
Section 692B.10
Regulations and
Prohibitions
(a) In addition to any other regulation found in this chapter or
these codified ordinances, the following regulations are applicable to

6
and shall govern and control all
licenses issued under this chapter:
(1) Each licensee shall at all
times open each and every portion
of the premises for inspection by the
Division of Police or the Department
of Building and Housing for the purpose of enforcing any provision of
this chapter.
(2) Each licensee shall have present on the premises at all times
when the premises are open to the
public at least one adult operator
who has not been convicted of any
felony or of any crime of violence
or involving gambling activities,
controlled substances, alcoholic beverages, minors or any crime involving moral turpitude.
(3) No licensee shall open the
premises for business under this
chapter except on Sunday between
2:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m; Monday
through Thursday between 9:00 a.m.
and 11:00 p.m.; and Friday and Saturday between 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight.
(4) No licensee shall allow living
quarters to exist with direct entry
to the premises.
(5) No licensee shall operate the
sweepstakes terminal café business
other than on street level or on a
level within three feet of street
level.
(6) No licensee shall allow any
person, other than an owner or operator over twenty-one (21) years of
age, who shall be readily identifiable, to be in control of the premises, nor allow the operator to be regularly situated in a place upon the
premises other than a place from
which he has an unobstructed view
of the entire portion of the premises devoted to the operation of computerized sweepstakes devices.
(7) No person under twenty-one
(21) years of age shall be permitted
in or on the premises in which is
located a licensed sweepstakes terminal café.
(8) Any and all sweepstakes rules
and odds of winning shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the
premises and displayed on the computerized sweepstakes device at the
start of each game and/or activity.
(9) Each licensee shall operate
the sweepstakes terminal café business in compliance with any and all
pertinent rules and regulations of
the Federal Trade Commission.
(b) All computerized sweepstakes
devices shall be located on the
premises in conformity with the
floor plan filed with the application
for the license and shall:
(1) not impair ingress or egress
to the premises;
(2) not interfere with free and
unfettered
passage
through
the
premises;
(3) be located so that at least 30
gross square feet of floor area is
specifically
designated
for
each
computerized sweepstakes device,
excluding areas used for other principal uses;
(4) be located so that there is a
minimum unobstructed area of five
feet on either side of each computerized sweepstakes device where
persons may use, watch or wait to
use the computerized sweepstakes
device;
(5) be located so to permit a clear
and complete view of the interior of
the
premises
immediately
upon
entry; and
(6) be located so that the back of
any
computerized
sweepstakes

The City Record
device is not exposed to a window.
(c) No licensee shall permit or fail
to take active steps to eliminate the
activities set forth in this section
from occurring on the premises.
Every licensee shall have a duty to
diligently pursue enforcement of
this section. The actions of the operator and the failure to take action
by the operator shall be imputed to
the licensee. No licensee shall:
(1) Permit any indecent, immoral
or profane language, or indecent,
immoral or disorderly conduct, upon
the premises;
(2) Permit the premises to become
a gathering place for disorderly persons of any type;
(3) Permit gambling in any form
or the possession or use of gambling
paraphernalia on the premises;
(4) Permit smoking inside of the
premises in accordance with state
law;
(5) Permit intoxication or the possession or use of alcoholic beverages on the premises;
(6) Permit the possession or use
of any unlawful drug, narcotic or
controlled substance on the premises;
(7) Permit the public street, sidewalks, alleys or walkways in the
immediate vicinity of any entrance
or exit to the premises to become littered;
Permit
the
walkways
to
(8)
become obstructed in any manner so
that pedestrian traffic is hindered;
(9)
Permit
any
computerized
sweepstakes device in the premises
to be operated at any time the
premises is not open for business, or
permit the entrance to be locked at
any time the premises are open for
business;
(10)
Permit
the
premises
to
become overcrowded so as to constitute a hazard to the health or
safety of persons inside or to be in
violation of any of the city’s relevant code provisions;
(11)
Permit
any
computerized
sweepstakes device to be offered to
the public for operation unless fully
operable and in safe operating condition.
Section 692B.11 Inspection
The Commissioner and the Director of Building and Housing, or
their
designees,
and
any
law
enforcement
officer,
are
hereby
authorized to make periodic checks
of any business establishment operating a sweepstakes terminal café
during the business hours of such
establishment for the purpose of
inspecting the premises and the
computerized sweepstakes device(s)
to enforce any provision of this
chapter, or to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the general
public.
Section 692B.12 Enforcement
In addition to the removal authorized pursuant to division (f)(3) of
section 692B.05, the Commissioner,
the Director of Building and Housing, or any duly authorized law
enforcement officer of the city may
seize any computerized sweepstakes
device for which no license has been
issued and which is found to be in
use by any person, or may immediately close down the business on the
premises, in order to prevent further
violations
of
this
chapter.
The
seizure shall not be lifted, nor the

1506

September 29, 2010
premises open again for business
unless and until a valid license(s)
first has been issued and any fines
and penalties have been paid in full,
including the city’s administrative
costs of any seizure and/or business
closure.
Section 692B.13
Expiration, Suspension or Revocation of License
(a) Any sweepstakes terminal
café license issued under this chapter will expire upon the transfer or
sale of a majority interest in the
computerized
sweepstakes
device
business, or the discontinuation of
the business for a continuous period
of thirty (30) days. Any computerized
sweepstakes
device
license
issued under this chapter will expire
upon the transfer or sale of the computerized sweepstakes device authorized by the license.
(b) The Commissioner may at any
time revoke or suspend any license
granted under this chapter for failure to comply with any provision of
this chapter, the Building Code, the
Zoning Code, or any other relevant
city, state or federal laws, rules or
regulations.
Section 692B.14 Appeal
If the Commissioner denies an
application for a license or renewal
of a license, or revokes or suspends
a license, the applicant or licensee
may appeal to the Board of Zoning
Appeals (Board) of the city. Written
notice of such appeal shall be filed
with the Board within ten (10) days
after the date of the Commissioner’s
order. The Board shall hear the
appeal within ten (10) days of the
date the notice of appeal is filed. At
the hearing, all interested parties
shall be afforded the opportunity to
be heard. The Board shall approve,
modify or annul the order from
which the appeal has been perfected, and the finding of the Board
shall be final with respect to all parties.
Section 692B.15 Severability
Each section of this chapter is an
independent section and if any section of this chapter, or application
of it to any person or circumstance,
is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
sections and the application to any
other person or circumstance shall
not be affected.
Section 692B.99 Penalties
In addition to any other penalties
provided in this chapter, whoever
violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Each day a violation occurs or continues to occur is
a separate offense as to each computerized
sweepstakes
device,
unless the city has closed the business pursuant to this chapter.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.

The City Record

September 29, 2010

7

Ord. No. 1285-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay as Moral Claims the sums opposite the
names of the claimants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Finance is authorized to pay as Moral Claims the sums opposite the names of
the following claimants and charged against the fund:
Claimant:

Claim No.

Amount

$

Division

Fund

Department of Public Safety
Smith, Erik

12204

150.00

Corrections

01-600701-672000

Grigsby, Christal A.

12222

946.23

Police

01-600200-672000

Holmes, Wanda

12233

92.02

Police

01-600200-672000

Department of Parks, Recreation and Property
Parmeter, Audrey

12228

Vacant Lots

01-701205-672000

Thomas, Sidney

12203

$

1,000.00

100.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Donley, Andrea

12214

500.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Department of Public Service
Tomasch, Ronald R.

12194

30.00

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Urbanski, Maryanne

12220

$

15.00

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Francis, Mary K.

12229

250.00

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Department of Public Utilities
Andolsek, Yolanda

4568

Ryland, Loretta

4960

$

500.00

CPP

58 SF 001, Unit 80

500.00

Water

52 SF 001

Miller, Jim and Kim

5021

3,068.29

WPC

54 SF 001

Lysyj, Emily

5022

1,005.20

WPC

54 SF 001

Section 2. That the authority of the Director of Finance to pay the amounts in this ordinance is conditioned
on a City-approved written acceptance by the claimant of the City’s offer to pay this claim within six months
from the effective date of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 1286-10.
By Council Members Pruitt and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 47 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 47 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1459-08,
passed September 22, 2008, and Ordinance No. 1674-09, passed November 16, 2009, is amended to read as follows:
Section 47.

Hourly Rate - MCEO

Effective May 1, 2010, compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each
classification:
Minimum

Maximum

1.

Construction Equipment – Group A ....................................

$27.42

$45.45

2.

Construction Equipment – Group B ....................................

$27.27

$45.30

3.

Master Mechanic..........................................................................

$27.92

$45.95

1507

The City Record

8

September 29, 2010

Section 2. That Section 47 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, as amended by Ordinance No. 1459-08,
passed September 22, 2008, and Ordinance No. 1674-09, passed November 16, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance, Law; Committees on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Finance.

Ord. No. 1290-10.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Cleveland, Brancatelli and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an amendment to Contract No. 44522 and an
amendment to the Rental Rehabilitation Loan agreement, entered into
on January 23, 1992, as amended,
both with NOAH Midtown II Limited Partnership, for the rehabilitation of low income rental units in
two multifamily buildings located at
3147 Prospect Avenue and 2029 East
40th Street, to change certain terms
of the agreements.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1267-91, passed June 17, 1991, this
Council authorized the Director of
Community Development to enter
into Contract No. 44522 with NOAH
Midtown II Limited Partnership, for
the rehabilitation of low income
rental units in two multi-family
buildings located at 3147 Prospect
Avenue and 2020 East 40th Street
Community
Development
using
Block Grant Housing Trust funds
(“CDBG NOAH Loan”); and
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1471-88, passed June 20, 1988, as
amended, this Council authorized
the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with NOAH Midtown II Limited
Partnership, for the rehabilitation of
low income rental units in two
multi-family buildings located at
3147 Prospect Avenue and 2020 East
40th Street using Rental Rehabilitation funds (“NOAH Rental Rehabilitation Loan”); and
Whereas, the Director of Community
Development
entered
into
amendments to both the CDBG
NOAH Loan and the NOAH Rental
Rehabilitation Loan on January 23,
1992, to change the terms of the
loans; and

Whereas, additional modifications
are desired; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. 44522 with NOAH Midtown
II
Limited
Partnership
(“NOAH CDBG Loan”) for the rehabilitation of low income rental units
in two multifamily buildings located at 3147 Prospect Avenue and 2029
East 40th Street (1) to extend the
terms of the loan for an additional
5 years, to be coterminous with Key
Banks’ first mortgage; (2) to continue the Tax Credit rent and
income limits throughout the term
of this loan; (3) to continue the
interest rate on the NOAH CDBG
Loan at 1%; (4) to allow borrower
to make one annual payment of
principal and interest to the City
that will be the higher of $10,000 per
year of 25% of the available net
cash flow after operating expenses
and first mortgage debt service; and
(5) make such other changes as
they deem necessary to allow the
refinance of the existing NOAH
CDBG Loan.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an amendment to
the
Rental
Rehabilitation
Loan
agreement, entered into on January
23, 1992, as amended, with NOAH
Midtown
II
Limited
Partnership
(“NOAH
Rental
Rehabilitation
Loan”) for the rehabilitation of low
income rental units in two multifamily buildings located at 3147
Prospect Avenue and 2029 East 40th
Street (1) to extend the terms of the
loan for an additional 5 years, to be

coterminous with Key Banks’ first
mortgage; (2) to continue the Tax
rent
and
income
limits
Credit
throughout the term of this loan; (3)
to reduce the interest rate on the
NOAH Rental Rehabilitation Loan to
1%; (4) to allow borrower to make
one annual payment of principal
and interest to the City that will be
the higher of $10,000 per year of
25% of the available net cash flow
after operating expenses and first
mortgage debt service; (5) to forgive the accrued interest on the
NOAH Rental Rehabilitation Loan;
and (6) make such other changes as
they deem necessary to allow the
refinance of the existing NOAH
Rental Rehabilitation Loan.
Section 3. That the terms of the
CDBG Loan and the Rental Rehabilitation Loan for NOAH Midtown
II Limited Partnership for the rehabilitation of low income rental units
in two multifamily buildings located at 3147 Prospect Avenue and 2029
East 40th Street shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Summary contained in File No.
1290-10-A.
Section 4. That the amendments
and related documents shall be prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain terms and provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY RESOLUTION REFERRRED
Res. No. 1287-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution accepting the amounts and rates as determined by the Cuyahoga County Budget Commission and authorizing the necessary tax levies and certifying them to the County Auditor.
Whereas, this Council, under the provisions of law, has adopted a Tax Budget for the fiscal year commencing
January 1, 2011; and
Whereas, the Budget Commission of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, has certified its action on the Tax Budget to this
Council together with an estimate by the County Auditor of the rate of each tax necessary to be levied by this
Council and what part is within and what part is outside the 10-mill tax limitation; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the amounts and rates as determined by the Budget Commission in its certification are accepted.
Section 2. That there is levied on the tax duplicate of the City of Cleveland the rate of each tax necessary to
be levied within and without the 10-mill tax limitation, as follows:

1508

The City Record

September 29, 2010

9

SCHEDULE A
SUMMARY OF AMOUNTS REQUIRED FROM GENERAL PROPERTY
TAX APPROVED BY BUDGET COMMISSION
AND COUNTY AUDITOR’S ESTIMATE TAX RATES

Fund

Amount to

Amount

be Derived

Approved By

From Levies

Budget Commission

County Auditor’s Estimate of Tax
Rate To Be Levied

Outside 10-Mill

Inside 10-Mill

Inside 10-Mill

Outside 10-Mill

Limitation

Limitation

Limitation

Limitation

Column II

Column IV

Column V

Column VI

GENERAL FUND

-----

7.75

BOND RETIREMENT FUND

4.35

-----

POLICE PENSION FUND

-----

0.30

FIRE PENSION FUND

0.05

0.25

TOTAL

4.40

8.30

Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is directed to certify a copy of this resolution to the County Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That this resolution is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1288-10.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Integrated
Consulting & Management, LLC for
the professional services necessary
to make computer-based automated
phone calls to targeted audiences in
the City for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Integrated Consulting & Management, LLC for the professional services necessary to make
computer-based
automated
phone
calls to residents in a wards or
wards, or other targeted audiences
in the City for Cleveland City Council. The agreement shall begin October 1, 2010 and shall terminate February 28, 2010, unless sooner cancelled by the Clerk of Council.
The agreement shall be certified
in
an
amount
not
to
exceed
$32,830.00 from fund numbers Fund
01, Dept. 0101, subfund 001, acct.
6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1289-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at on scattered sites to
St. John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; now owned or to be acquired
by the City of Cleveland’s Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.

1509

Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
Ordinance
is
more
fully
this
described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
107 in Horace P. Weddell’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre
Lot Nos. 64, 65 and 66, as shown by
the recorded plat in said Subdivision
in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 30 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records.
Said
Sublot No. 107 has a frontage of, 40
feet on the Southerly side of Cedar
Avenue, S.B., and extends back
between parallel lines 132 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-012
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 96.50 feet of Sublot No. 39
in William Williams’ Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos.
67, 68, 69 and 70 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records
and being 50 feet front on the
Southerly side of Cedar Avenue,
S.E., (formerly Cedar Street), and
extending back 96.50 feet on the
Easterly line, 96.50 feet on Westerly line, which is also the Easterly

10
line of East 38th Street (formerly
William Street), and has a rear line
of 50 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 5. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 40 feet of the Northerly 125 feet
of
Sublot
No.
40
in
William
Williams’ Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and
70, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Southerly side of
Cedar Avenue, S.E., and extending
back of equal width 125 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 7. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

The City Record
Section 11. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-017
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as Parcel D of the
Lot Split and Consolidation plat for
BFR Partners, LLC, shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 341, Page
31 of Cuyahoga County Records, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 13. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 102-22-018
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as Parcel A 1 of
the Lot Split and Consolidation plat
for BFR Partners, LLC, shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 341,
97
of
Cuyahoga
County
Page
Records, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 15. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 103-22-015
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the Easterly half of Sublot No. 41 in William
Williams’ Subdivision of part of
Original Ten Acre Lot No. 68 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga
County Records and being 25 feet
front on the Southerly side of Cedar
Avenue S.E., and extending back of
equal
width
150
feet
deep,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances.
Section 9. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 103-22-019
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as Parcel A2 of the
Lot Split and Consolidation plat for
BFR Partners, LLC, shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 341, Page
97 of Cuyahoga County Records, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 17. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 103-22-016
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Southwesterly 25 feet of Sublot No. 42 in
William Williams’ Subdivision of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos.
67, 68, 69 and 70, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 25 feet front on
the Southeasterly side of Cedar
Avenue, S.E. and extending back
between parallel lines 150 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.

P. P. No. 103-22-020
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
50 in William Williams’ Allotment
of part of Original Ten Acre Lot
Nos. 67, 68, 69 and 70 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 39th Street
(formerly Grant Street) and extends
back of equal width 151 feet 7 inches, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.

1510

September 29, 2010
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 19. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-038
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly one-half of Sublot No. 19 in
William William’s Allotment of part
of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67 to
70, both inclusive, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Central Avenue, S.E. (formerly Garden Street) 63 feet wide at the
Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to Fredrick Nauman, by deed
dated August 27, 1864, and recorded
in Volume 129, Page 203 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of Central Avenue, S.F., 25 feet, 6 inches
the
Southwesterly
corner
of
to
Sublot No. 19; thence Northerly along
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
19, 128 feet, 9 inches to the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
19;
thence
Easterly
along
the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 19,
to the Northwesterly corner of land
so conveyed to Frederick Nauman;
thence Southerly along the Westerly line of land so conveyed to Frederick Nauman, to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 21. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-040
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 2 in Taylor and Hoyt’s
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot No. 66, as shown by the
recorded plat of said Allotment in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County Records and part of
Sublot No. 18 in William Williams’
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and 70, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Allotment in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, said part of Sublot No. 2 in
Taylor and Hoyt Allotment and said
part of Sublot No. 18 in William
Williams’ Allotment together forming a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
Central Avenue, S.E., 35.32 feet Easterly from the Southwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 2; thence Easterly along the Northerly line of Central Avenue, S.E., 35.36 feet to a
point in the center of said Sublot No.
18; thence Northerly parallel with
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
18 and about 119 feet to a point in
the rear line of said Sublot No. 18,

September 29, 2010
25 feet Westerly from the Northeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said
Sublot No. 18, 22.89 feet; thence in a
straight line to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 23. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 106 in the Horace P. Weddell’s Subdivision of part of Original
Ten Acre Lot No. 66, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said Sublot has a frontage
of 30 feet front on the Westerly side
of East 37th Street as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways
Section 25. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-074
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being the
Southerly 31.50 feet from front to
rear of Sublot No. 100 in Horace F.
Weddell’s Subdivision of part of
Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 65 and
66 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being
31.50 feet front on the Westerly side
of East 37th Street (formerly Wheat
Street) and extending back between
parallel lines 117 feet eleven inches,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more ox less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 27. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-088
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
in the County of Cuyahoga and
State of Ohio, and known as being
parts of Sublot Nos. 16 and 17, in
Wm Williams Allotment of part of
Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68
and 69, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and the
Southerly 30 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 4 in Taylor and Hoyt’s
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot No. 66, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps,
Page
34
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follows:

The City Record
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 37th Street, (formerly Wheat
Street) at the Southwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 4; thence Northerly along said Easterly line of East
37th Street, 30 feet to the Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to
Eliza E. Rose, by deed dated March
17, 1887 and recorded in Volume 406,
of
Cuyahoga
County
Page626
Records; thence Easterly along the
Southerly line of land so conveyed
to Eliza E. Rose, about 85 feet to
the Westerly line of land conveyed
to Girolamo Rini and Agnela Rini,
(husband and wife) by deed dated
October 1, 1914, and recorded in Volume 1633, Page 499 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Southerly
along said Westerly line of land so
conveyed to Girolamo Rini and
Angela Rini, 30 feet to a Northerly
line of land so conveyed to the said
Girolamo Rini and Angela Rini;
thence Westerly along said Northerly line of land so conveyed to Girolamo Rini and Angela Rini and
along the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 4, about 85 feet 5 inches
to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 29. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-089
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 4 and 5 in Taylor and
Hoyt’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 66, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County
Records and also a part of Sublot
No. 16 in William Williams’ Re-Subdivision of William Williams’ Subdivision of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and 70, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Re-Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 37th Street (formerly Forest
Street) at the Southwesterly corner
of land conveyed by James Hoyt
and others to Ellen Burke by deed
dated October 21, 1875 and recorded
in Volume 205, Page 605 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Easterly and along the prolongation of
same, Easterly about 85 feet to the
Westerly line of land conveyed by
Elisha Sheldon Ganson to Victoria
E. Ganson by deed dated March 17,
1887 and recorded in Volume 412,
Page
397
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of said land conveyed
to Victoria E. Ganson about 30 feet
to the Northeasterly corner of land
conveyed by Frederick W. Smith to
Helen M. Smith Quit Claim Deed
dated December 8, 1910 and recorded in Volume 1301, Page 259 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Westerly along the Northerly line of
said land so conveyed to Helen M.
Smith about 85 feet to the Easterly
line of said East 37th Street; thence
Northerly along the Easterly line of

1511

11
said East 37th Street, about 30 feet
to the place of the beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 31. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-090
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly one half of Sublot No. 5
and the Southerly 5 feet from front
to rear of Sublot No. 6 in Taylor and
Hoyt’s Allotment of part of Original
Ten Acre Lot No. 66 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 25 feet front on the
Easterly side of Wheat Street (now
known as East 37th Street) and
extending back of equal width 73
feet and 5 inches deep, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 33. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-092
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 10 feet of Sublot No. 6 and
the Southerly 15 feet of Sublot No. 7
in Taylor and Hoyt’s Subdivision of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 66,
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said parts of said Sublot
Nos. 6 and 7 together from a parcel
of land having a frontage of 25 feet
on the Easterly side of East 37th
Street (formerly Forest Street) and
extending back between equal lines
73 feet 5 inches, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 35. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 36. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-093 and 103-22-094
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Parcel B
in Dedication Plat for Stanley Tolliver Avenue, S.E, and Lot Split and
Consolidation for BFR Partners Co.
LLC of part of Original Ten Acre
Lot Nos. 66 and 67, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 350 of
Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County
Records.

12
Section 37. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 38. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-095
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as Parcel “A” in
the Dedication Plat for Stanley Tolliver Avenue, S.E. and Lot Split and
Consolidation for SFR Partners Co.,
LLC, of part of Original Ten Acre
Lot No. 66, as shown by the recorded Plat in Volume 350 of Maps, Page
34 of Cuyahoga County Records.
And being a parcel of land 28.04 feet
on the Southerly side of Stanley Tolliver Avenue S.E. and being 28.28
feet on the curved turnout between
the Southerly side of Stanley Tolliver Avenue S.E. and the Easterly
side of East 37th Street and extending back 93.81 feet on the Westerly
line, which is also the Easterly side
of East 37th Street, and 111.81 feet
on the Easterly line, and having a
rear line of 46.04 feet as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 39. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 40. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-098 and 103-22-099
Situated in the City of Cleveland.,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Parcel F
in Dedication Plat for Stanley Tolliver Avenue, S.E. and Lot Split and
Consolidation for BFR Partners Co.,
LLC of part of Original Ten Acre
Lot Nos. 66 and 67, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 350 of
Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County
Records.
Section 41. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 42. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 12 and 13 in Taylor and
Hoyt’s Allotment of part of Original
Ten Acre Lot No. 66, as shown by
the recorded Plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly side of
East 37th Street at a point distant
Northerly 26.53 feet from the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
12: thence Northerly 26.80 feet along
the said Easterly line of East 37th
Street to a point; thence Easterly
73.42 feet parallel with the Southerly line of said Sublot No. 13 to a
point in the Easterly line thereof;
thence Southerly 26.80 feet along the

The City Record
Easterly line of said Sublot Nos. 12
and 13 to a point; thence Westerly
73.42 feet parallel with the Southerly line of said Sublot No. 13 to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 43. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 44. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-102
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 26 2/3 feet of Sublot No.
13 in Taylor and Hoyt’s Subdivision
of part of Original Ten Acre Lot No.
66, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 26
2/3 feet front on the Easterly side
of East 37th Street and extending
back of equal width 73 feet 6 inches, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 45. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 46. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No.103-22-103
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No.14 in Taylor and Hoyt’s Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre
Lot No. 66, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page
34 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 37th Street (formerly
Wheat Street), and extending back
of equal width 73 feet, 5 inches, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 47. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 48. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-104
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 24 feet of Sublot No. 15 in
Taylor and Hoyt’s Allotment of part
of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 66 as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Allotment in Volume 2 of Maps,
Page
34
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Said part of said Sublot No.
15 has a frontage of 24 feet on the
Easterly side of East 37th Street
(formerly
Forest
Street)
and
extends back between parallel lines
73 feet 5 inches, as appears by said

1512

September 29, 2010
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 49. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 50. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-107
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
17 in the Taylor and Hoyt’s Subdivision of a part of Original Ten
Acre Lot No. 66 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps,
Page
34
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being a parcel of land
having a frontage of 40 feet on the
Easterly side of East 37th Street
Forest
Avenue)
and
(formerly
extending back of equal width 73.5
feet deep as per said recorded plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 51. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 52. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-109
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly part of Sublot No. 18 in
Taylor and Hoyt Subdivision of part
of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 66 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
further
described as follows:
Said Northerly part of Sublot No.
18 has a frontage of 26 feet on Easterly side of East 37th Street and
extending back of equal width 73.50
feet deep, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 53. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 54. That the real property
to be sold pursuant this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-124 and 103-22-126
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Parcel E
in Dedication Plat for Stanley Tolliver Avenue, S.E. and Lot Split and
Consolidation
for
SFR
Partners
Company, LLC of part of Original
Ten Acre Lot Nos. 66 and 67, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 350 of Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Section 55. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,

September 29, 2010
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 56. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-125
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being part of
Sublot No. 13 in William William’s
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and 70 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga
County Records, bounded as follows:
Beginning in the Westerly line of
East 38th Street (formerly Williams
Street) at a point 9 feet Southerly
from the Northeast corner of said
Sublot No. 13; thence Southerly
along the Westerly line of East 38th
Street, 41.01 feet to the Southeast
corner of said Sublot No. 13, 150.60
feet to the Southwest corner of said
Sublot No. 13; thence Northerly along
the Westerly line of said Sublot
No.13, to a point 9 feet Southerly
from the Northwest corner, thereof;
thence Easterly parallel with the
Northerly side of said Sublot No.13,
150.60 feet to the place of beginning,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 57. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 58. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-127
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 20-1/100 feet of Sublot No.
14 and the Northerly 10 feet of
Sublot No. 15 in William Williams’
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 67 to 70, both inclusive as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
together forming a parcel of land 301/100 feet front on the Westerly side
of
East
38th
Street
(formerly
Williams Street), and extending
back of equal width 150.5 feet deep,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Restrictions of record and zoning
ordinances, if any.
Section 59. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 60. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-144
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being the
Southerly 20 feet on Sublot No. 35
front to rear and the Northerly 10
feet of Sublot No. 34 front to rear in
William William’s Subdivision of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos.
67, 68, 69, and 70, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and forming a parcel of
land 30 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 38th Street, (formerly

The City Record
Williams
Street)
and
extending
back of equal width 151 feet 7 inches, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 61. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 62. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-145
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being the
Northerly 30 feet front to rear of
Sublot
No.
35
in
the
William
Williams’s Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69, and
70, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 30
feet from front on the Easterly side
East
38th
Street,
(formerly
of
Williams
Street)
and
extending
back of equal width 151 feet 7 inches deep, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 63. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 64. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-147
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 11 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 37 and the Northerly
17 feet of Sublot No. 36 in William
Williams’ Subdivision of part of
Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69
and 70 as shown by the recorded
plat of said Subdivision in Volume
3 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga
County Records. Said parts of Sublot
Nos. 36 and 37 together form a parcel of land having a frontage of 28
feet on the Easterly side of East
38th
Street
(formerly
William
Street), and extending back between
parallel
lines
151-7/12
feet
as
appears by said plat. Said premises
are conveyed subject to and with
the right of way in common 6 feet
wide and 151-7/12 feet long, extending Easterly from said Easterly line
of East 38th Street to the Easterly
line of said Sublot No. 36, the center of said right of way being the
Southerly
line
of
the
above
described premises and the side
lines of said right of way in common being parallel with the Southerly line and 3 feet distant North and
South therefrom, said right of way
in common to be kept open and
unobstructed and to be used for
ingress and egress to and from the
premises abutting thereon on the
North and South side lines.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 65. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is

1513

13
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 66. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-152
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot No. 39 in W. Williams Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and 70,
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Allotment in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly side of
East 38th Street (formerly William
Street) at a point 125 feet Southerly
from the Southerly line of Cedar
Avenue, S. E.; thence Easterly parallel with the Southerly line of
Cedar Avenue, S. E., 50 feet to the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 39;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of said Sublot No. 39, 28.60 feet;
thence Westerly parallel with the
Southerly line of Cedar Avenue, S.
E, 50 feet to the Easterly line of
East 38th Street, thence Southerly
along the Easterly line of East 38th
Street, 28.60 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 67. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 68. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-157
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being part of
Sublot
No.
14,
in
the
William
Williams Subdivision of Original
Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68 and 69 and
part of 70, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page
6 of Cuyahoga County Records,
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Westerly line of
East 38th Street at a point distant
Southerly
measured
along
said
Westerly line, 27 feet from the
Northeasterly corner of said Sublot
No. 14; thence Southerly, along the
Westerly line of said East 38th
Street, 3 feet; thence Westerly parallel with the Northerly line of said
Sublot No. 14, 150.50 feet to the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 14;
thence Northerly, along said Westerly line 30 feet to the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 14,
thence Easterly, along the Northerly line of said Sublot No. 14, 76 feet
to a point distant Westerly measured along said Northerly line,
74.50 feet from the Westerly line of
said
East
38th
Street,
thence
Southerly parallel with the Westerly line of said 38th Street, 27 feet;
thence Easterly parallel with the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 14,
74.50 feet to the place of beginning
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 69. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.

14
Section 70. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-165
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 4 in William William’s
Allotment of the Southerly ends of
Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68
and 69 and the middle of Lot No. 70,
as recorded in Volume 3, Page 6 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Westerly line of William Street, 60 feet
wide, now East 38th Street, 60 feet
wide, distant 21.00 feet Southerly
herein from the Northeasterly corner
of said Sublot No, 4; thence Westerly 50.00 feet parallel with the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 4
to a point; thence Southerly 4.00 feet
parallel with said Westerly line of
East 38th Street to a point; thence
Westerly 57.00 feet parallel .with the
said Northerly line of Sublot No. 4
to a point; thence Northerly 5.00 feet
parallel with said Westerly line of
East 38th Street to a point; thence
Westerly 43.50 feet parallel with
said Northerly line of Sublot No. 4
to a point in the Westerly line thereof; thence Northerly 20.00 feet along
the Westerly line of Sublot No. 4 to
the Northwesterly corner thereof;
thence
150.50
feet
along
said
Northerly line of Sublot No. 4 to the
Northeasterly corner thereof; being
a point in said Westerly line of East
38th Street; thence Southerly 21.00
feet along the Westerly line of East
38th Street to the place of beginning, according to a survey by
Robert H. Krause, Registered Ohio
Surveyor No. 2885, October 23, 1950,
as appears by said Plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 71. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 72. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-170
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Parcel C
in the Lot Split and Consolidation
for BPR Partners Company, of part
of Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 67 to
70, as shown by the recorded Plat in
Volume 341, Page 31 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Section 73. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 74. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-001
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
No. 84 and the Westerly 8-5/12 feet
from front to rear of Sublot No. 85
in Wm. Williams’ Allotment of part
of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67 to
70, both inclusive, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,

The City Record
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 60 feet, 7 inches front
on the Southerly side of Cedar
Street,
(now
known
as
Cedar
Avenue), S.E. and extending back of
equal width along the Easterly side
of Grant Street, now know as East
39th Street, 150 feet deep, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 75. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 76. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio; known as being Sublot No, 87
in William, William’s Re-Subdivision
of part of Original Ten Acre Lot
Nos, 67, 68, 69 and 70, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 50 feet front on
the Southerly side of Cedar Avenue,
&E., 135 feet deep on the Easterly
line of 136 feet deep on the Westerly line and 50 feet wide in rear, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 77. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 78. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Northerly 45 feet of the Southerly 49.33 feet
of
Sublot
No.
69
in
William
Williams’ Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and
70, as shown by the recorded plat of
said Allotment in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Said part of Sublot No. 69
has a frontage of 45 feet on the
Easterly side of East 39th Street,
and extends back between parallel
lines 151 feet and 7 inches, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 79. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 80. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-039
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Parcel “B”
in the Lot Split & Consolidation for
BFR Partners, LLC of part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 68 and 69 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 344 of Maps, Page 72 of Cuyahoga county Records, as appears by
said plat, be he same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.

1514

September 29, 2010
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 81. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 82. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-039
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Parcel “B”
in the Lot Split & Consolidation for
BFR Partners, LLC of part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 68 and 69 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 344 of Maps, Page 72 of Cuyahoga county Records, as appears by
said plat, be he same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 83. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 84. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-041
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 72 and 73 in William
Williams Subdivision of part of
Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69
and 70 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 39th Street (formerly Grant
Street) at a point distant 3.50 feet
Southerly,
measured
along
said
Easterly line, from the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 72;
thence Northerly along said Easterly line of East 39th Street, 6 feet;
thence Easterly and parallel with
the Southerly line of said Sublot No.
73, 81.70 feet; thence Northerly, and
parallel with the Easterly line of
East 39th Street, 34 feet; thence
Easterly, and parallel with the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 73,
70 feet to the Easterly line of said
Sublot No. 73; thence Southerly,
along the Easterly line of said
Sublot Nos. 73 and 72, 40 feet; thence
Westerly, and parallel with the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 72,
151.70 feet to the place of beginning,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 85. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 86. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-045
Situated in. the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Parcel A
of the Lot Split and Consolidation
Plat for BFR Partners, LLC of part

September 29, 2010

The City Record

of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 68 and
69 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 346 of Maps. Page 55 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 87. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 88. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

back of equal width 151 feet 7 inches deep as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways, and further
subject to restrictions of record,
reservations, easement and conditions of record, if any.
Section 93. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 94. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 103-23-048
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
No. 79 in William William’s Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre
Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69, and 70, said
Sublot No. 79 has a frontage of 50
feet, 50 feet on the East side of East
39th Street (formerly Grant Street)
and is 50 feet wide and 151 feet, 7
inches in depth, according to the
plat of said Allotment as recorded
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of
Cuyahoga County Records.
Section 89. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 90. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 103-23-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Parcel B
in the Lot Split and Consolidation
for BFR Partners, LLC, of part of
Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67 to 70,
as shown by the recorded Plat in
Volume 346, Page 57 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Section 95. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 96. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 103-23-049
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
80 in William Williams’ Allotment
of part of Original Ten Acre Lot
Nos. 67, 68 and 69, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the Easterly side of Grant Street
(now known as East 39th Street)
and extending back of equal width
151 feet, 7 inches deep, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways, now known as Parcel A of the
Lot Split and Consolidation Plat for
BFR Partners, LLC, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 343, Page
00 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Section 91. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 92. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-050
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 30 feet from front to rear
of
Sublot
No.
82
in
William
William’s Re-Subdivision of part of
William Williams’ Subdivision of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos.
67, 68, 69, as shown by the recorded
plat of said Re-Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being a parcel
of land 30 feet front on the Easterly side of Grant Street (now known
as East 39th Street), and extending

P. P. No. 103-23-096
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Parcel B
in the Lot Split and Consolidation
for BFR Partners, LLC, of part of
Original 10 Acre Lot Nos. 67 to 70,
as shown by the recorded Plat in
Volume 346, Page 57 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 97. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 98. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-097
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being part of
Sublet No. 70 in William William’s
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and 70, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being a parcel
of land 12.70 feet on the Easterly
side of East 39th Street, and extending back 152.42 feet on the Northerly line, 152.43 feet on the Southerly
line, and having a rear line of 12.73
feet as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways. Know known as
Parcel “C” in the Lot Split & Consolidation for 13FR Partners Company, LLC as shown by Plat Volume
344 of Maps, Page 72 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Section 99. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six

1515

15
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Developthis
ordinance
shall
be
ment,
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 100. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 101. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 102. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1291-10.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 2 of Ordinance No. 86509 passed June 8, 2009 as it pertains
to The First Tee of Cleveland and
the Participant Activity Board Project through the use of Ward 12
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 865-09 passed June 8, 2009
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 865-09 passed June 8, 2009
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

16
Ord. No. 1292-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 15 (Maria Konstanino).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the consent of
Council, expressed by ordinance is a
prerequisite to temporary sidewalk
peddling upon the public rights of
way outside of the Central Business
District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to engage in peddling in Ward
15; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 675.07 of the Codified Ordinances, this Council hereby consents
to allow the person named in this
section to engage in peddling in the
public right of way in Ward 15 at
the locations specified: Maria Konstanino, 4906 Clark Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance
supersedes any and all preceding
ordinances that may authorize peddling at the above named location.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1296-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 2 of Ordinance No. 76510 passed May 26, 2010 as it pertains
to the Cleveland Metropolitan School
District’s
After-School
Education
Program through the use of Ward 1
Neighborhood Equity Funds
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 765-10 passed May 26, 2010
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 765-10 passed May 26, 2010
is hereby repealed.

The City Record

September 29, 2010

Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED

Res. No. 1294-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
stock of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 5611 Woodland Avenue and
repealing
Resolution
No.
838-10,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of stock of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to Jai Ambaji,
Inc., DBA Hometown Grocery, 5611
Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent No. 4225578, adopted by the Council on June 7, 2010;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Jai Ambaji, Inc., DBA Hometown Grocery,
5611 Woodland Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
4225578 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 83810, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

Res. No. 1293-10.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Mitchell.
An emergency resolution supporting State Senate Bill 273 which generally authorizes municipal corporations and other political subdivisions to enter into agreements to
perform services for one another.
Whereas, current law provides a
variety of specific statutes that
authorize political subdivisions such
as the City of Cleveland to contract
for certain services; and
Whereas, for example, the city
has entered into cooperation agreements with other municipalities to
share emergency medical services
and fire fighting services; and
Whereas, general authority also
exists under R.C. 307.15, which
authorizes intergovernmental agreements for exercising powers, performing functions or rendering services, as well as under R.C. Chapter
167, which authorizes political subdivisions to enter into agreements
creating regional councils of government to, inter alia, promote cooperative agreements among its members; and
Whereas, state Senate Bill 273 provides general authority for specified
political
subdivisions,
namely
municipal
corporations,
counties,
townships, port authorities, water or
sewer
districts,
school
districts,
library districts, health districts,
park districts, soil and water conservation districts, water conservancy districts, or any other taxing district, to enter into agreements to
provide services to one another; and
Whereas, such general authority
given to these specified subdivisions
will advance cooperation between
municipalities and other political
subdivisions by causing the political
subdivisions to allocate and share
resources, and make political subdivisions more efficient by cutting
administrative costs; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports State Senate Bill 273 which
generally authorizes municipal corporations and other political subdivisions to enter into agreements to
perform services for one another.
Section 2. That the Clerk is directed to forward copies of this resolution to Ohio State Senators Nina
Turner, Dale Miller and Shirley
Smith.

1516

Res. No. 1295-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 3744 East 144th Street, 1st
floor only and repealing Resolution
No. 465-10, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Lilly
Aziza, Inc., DBA One Stop Market,
3744 East 144th Street, 1st floor only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
No. 5202187, by Resolution No. 465-10
adopted by the Council on April 12,
2010; and

September 29, 2010
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Lilly
Aziza, Inc., DBA One Stop Market,
3744 East 144th Street, 1st floor only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 5202187, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 465-10, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 813-10.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of
Public Safety for the 2010 Port Security Grant; and authorizing one or
more requirement and standard contracts for materials, equipment, supplies, and services, including training, needed to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 885-10.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of Justice for the 2010 Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Program; authorizing
the purchase by one or more requirement or standard contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, and services
needed
to
implement
the
grant; and authorizing the Director
to enter into one or more contracts
with Cuyahoga County and the
Cities of Euclid, Garfield Heights,
Lakewood, Parma, and Roger Oviatt
to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

The City Record
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 886-10.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the State of Ohio Emergency Management Agency, or a designated
entity, for the 2009 Urban Area Security Initiative Program; authorizing
one or more requirement and standard contracts for the purchase of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services; authorizing one or more
agreements with governmental entities; and to employ one or more professional consultants to implement
the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 887-10.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
one or more Concession Agreements
for the operation of concession
stands at Gordon Park and Brookside Park, for the Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
for a period not to exceed three
years.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Properties,
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1055-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Building and
Housing to employ one or more professional consultants to perform
deconstruction services of structures
in the City of Cleveland.
Approved by Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In Section 1, line 12, after “Control.” insert “The term of each contract or contracts shall expire not
later than December 31, 2011.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1189-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one or more
loan and forgivable loan agreements
with MCPC, Inc., or its designee, to
provide development assistance to

1517

17
partially finance the renovation and
related costs associated with relocating their corporate headquarters
to 1801 Superior Avenue, and certain
other costs necessary to redevelop
the property.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1190-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 2156-05,
passed December 4, 2005, as amended by various ordinances, relating to
the creation of the Neighborhood
Retail Assistance Program.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1202-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to lease certain
space located within Willard Park
to the Cuyahoga County Board of
Developmental Disabilities for the
purpose of establishing an urban
garden to provide employment to
adults with developmental disabilities, for a term of five years, with
one five-year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties.
Approved by Directors of Park,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance Law;
Relieved of Committee on City Planning, Passage recommended by Committees on Public Park, Properties
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:44 p.m. to meet on Monday, October 4, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

The City Record

18
BOARD OF CONTROL

September 22, 2010
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, September 22,
2010, at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Acting
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney
and
Acting
Director
O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Others: James Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Natoya Walker, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 398-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Utilicon Corp for an estimated quantity of labor and materials necessary to repair or replace
water mains, fire hydrants, valves,
service connections and appurtenances-Area A, including concrete
repair, and tree lawn restoration, all
items, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year starting upon the
later of the execution of a contract
or the day following expiration of
the currently effective contract for
the goods or services, received on
June 16, 2010 under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1538-09,
passed
November 23, 2009, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $4,085,031.75 (0%),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be certified to the contract in an amount
not less than $500,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders
separately certified to the
contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Utilicon Corp for the above-mentioned
service is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Dan Ray Construction,
LLC (CSB/MBE)
ECC Enterprises, LLC
(CSB/FBE)

$492,000.00
12.044%
$328,000.00
8.029%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Acting
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney
and
Acting
Director
O’Leary.

September 29, 2010

Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 399-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Noce Enterprises Inc. for
an estimated quantity of labor and
materials necessary to repair or
replace water mains, fire hydrants,
valves,
service
connections
and
appurtenances-Area
B,
including
concrete
repair,
and
tree
lawn
restoration, all items, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of one year
starting upon the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration of the currently
effective contract for the goods or
services, received on June 16, 2010
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1538-09, passed November 23, 2009,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$3,233,785.00
is
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost of
which shall be certified to the contract in an amount not less than
$500,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Noce Enterprises Inc. for the abovementioned service is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Corlett Trenching and
Plumbing (CSB/MBE)
AMROC Construction

$970,135.50
30.000%
$646,757.00
20.000%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Acting
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney
and
Acting
Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 400-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Noce Enterprises Inc. for
an estimated quantity of labor and
materials necessary to repair or
replace water mains, fire hydrants,
valves,
service
connections
and
appurtenances-Area
C,
including
concrete
repair,
and
tree
lawn
restoration, all items, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of one year
starting upon the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration of the currently
effective contract for the goods or
services, received on June 17, 2010
under the authority of Ordinance No.

1518

1538-09, passed November 23, 2009,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$3,596,040.00 (0%), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost of
which shall be certified to the contract in an amount not less than
$500,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders
separately certified to the
contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
following
subcontractors
by
the
Noce Enterprises Inc. for the abovementioned service is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Corlett Trenching and Plumbing
(CSB/MBE)
$1,078,812.00
30.000%
AMROC Construction

$ 719,208.00
20.000%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Acting
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
and
Acting
Director
Mahoney
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 401-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Utilicon Corp for the public improvement of cleaning and
cement mortar lining of distribution
main in East 42nd Street, East 52nd
Street, East 53rd Street and Brow
Avenue in the Village of Newburgh
Heights, Ohio, including a $39,170.40
contingency allowance, all items, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, received on July
15, 2010, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1928-07, passed December
10, 2007, upon a unit basis for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $430,874.40, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
a contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following sub-contractors by
Utilicon Corp for the above-mentioned
public
improvement
is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Dan-Ray Construction, LLC
(CSB/MBE)
$73,400.00
17.035%
ECC Enterprises, LLC
(CSB/MBE/FBE)

$56,200.00
13.043%

The City Record

September 29, 2010
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Acting
Director Fumich, Interim Director
and
Acting
Director
Mahoney
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 402-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Utilicon Corp for an estimated quantity of labor and materials necessary to repair or replace
water mains, fire hydrants, valves,
service connections and appurtenances-Area D, including concrete
repair, and tree lawn restoration, all
items, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year starting upon the
later of the execution of a contract
or the day following expiration of
the currently effective contract for
the goods or services, received on
June 17, 2010 under the authority of
No.
1538-09,
passed
Ordinance
November 23, 2009, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $3,088,908.63 (0%),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be certified to the contract in an amount
not less than $500,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders
separately certified to the
contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Utilicon Corp for the above-mentioned
service is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Dan Ray Construction,
LLC (CSB/MBE)
ECC Enterprises, LLC
(CSB/FBE)

$372,000.00
12.043%
$248,000.00
8.029%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Acting
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney
and
Acting
Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 403-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Terrace Construction
Company,
Inc.
for
the
public
improvement
of
cleaning
and
cement mortar lining of distribution
main in Effingham Boulevard in the
City of Euclid, Ohio, including a
$16,685.20 contingency allowance, all
items, for the Division of Water,

19

Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received on June 10, 2010, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 1928-07,
passed December 10, 2007, upon a
unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of $183,537.20,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Utilities is authorized to
enter
into
a
contract
for
the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following sub-contractors by
Terrace Construction Company, Inc.
for
the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Rockport Construction &
Materials, Inc.
(CSB/FBE)

$10,100.00
5.503%

The Vallejo Company, Inc.
(CSB/MBE)
$45,000.00
24.518%
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Acting
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney
and
Acting
Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 404-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of SHIHLIN ELECTRIC USA
COMPANY LIMITED for the following: Purchase of Transformers and
Accessories, Group K, Items K1
through K10, Group L, Items L1
through L3, Items L5 through L12,
and Group M, Item M1 (0%, Net 30
Days), for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, received on June 9, 2010,
under the authority of Section 129.26
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of
the
order
quantities
would
amount to $1,045,820.00, is approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Public
Utilities
is
requested to enter into contract for
the items.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Acting
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney
and
Acting
Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 405-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of K D Lamp Company,
Incorporated for an estimated quantity of decorative post lights, Group
A, all items, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
two years starting upon execution
of the contract, received on July 9,
2010 under the authority of Ordinance No. 1751-09, passed December
7, 2009, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$79,992.50 (2%, 30 Days), is affirmed

1519

and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a
requirement contract, for the goods
services,
which
contract
and/or
shall provide for an initial delivery
order, the cost of which shall be certified against the contract in an
amount not less than $79,992.50.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent delivery
orders separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Acting
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney
and
Acting
Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 406-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on June 9, 2010 for
the purchase of Transformers and
Accessories, Groups A, B, C, D, E, F,
G, H, I, J, and N, all items, and
Group L, Item L-4, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, under the
authority of Section 129.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Acting
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney
and
Acting
Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 407-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Westside Lighting Center,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of
decorative post light installation,
Group B, all items, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years starting upon execution of the contract, received on
July 9, 2010 under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1751-09, passed December 7, 2009, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to $59,200.00 (0%, 0 Days),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract, for the
goods and/or services, which contract shall provide for an initial
delivery order, the cost of which
shall be certified against the contract in an amount not less than
$59,200.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent delivery
orders separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Direc-

The City Record

20
tors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Acting
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney
and
Acting
Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 408-10.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, Charter One Bank is
holding an event at the West Side
Market on September 29, 2010 to
launch the Growing Communities
Initiative for the Ohio City Market
District; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
wishes to support this initiative and
grant Charter One Bank the privilege, permit and license to distribute from the West Side Market property approximately 5,000 promotional bags as part of the September 29,
2010 event; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.04 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
that the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized to
enter into an agreement (“Agreement”) granting Charter One Bank
the privilege, permit and license to
utilize booth spaces 80 and 82 at the
West Side Market at no charge for
the sole purpose of storing and distributing 5,000 promotional bags to
the public on September 29, 2010.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, Acting Director Dangerfield, Director Wasik, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Director Cox,
Acting
Directors
Wilbur,
West,
Director Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney
and
Acting
Director
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
MARK R. MUSSON,
Acting Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.

September 29, 2010

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2010
10/1/2010 — 10/7/2010
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.
63A WR

Exam
Type

Customer Service
Representative Open

64

WR/TY Emergency Medical
Open
Dispatcher

65

EE

Geriatric Outreach
Worker
Open

66

EE

Mechanical
Inspector

67

EE

Supervisor Of Vital
Statistics
Open

Open

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.

REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

Social Security card.

1520

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 63A
CUSTOMER SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil
Service
Commission
of
Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.03 - $17.16 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office
of
the
Civil
Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119.
No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP IN THE
CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY
TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE
EXAMINATION ON THE FOLLOWING DATES FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2010 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER
7, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2010.

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE:
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK OF HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, assists a high volume of utility customers concerning
inquiries, concerns, or complaints
regarding their accounts, equipment,
and services by walk-in or telephone
in accordance with established guidelines and procedures. Receives information regarding customer’s circumstances. Uses computer software and
hardware, reference manuals, federal/county/municipal
records,
intranet/internet sites, training sessions, etc. to investigate address,
branch, and meter information as
well as customer usage, account, and
bill payment history. Assesses resulting information to determine theft of
services or possible causes for high or
low meter readings. Calculates specific charges and makes billing
adjustments as necessary. Evaluates
customer eligibility for billing and
service programs, bill extensions, and
extended payment arrangements and
determines if supervisory approval is
needed for such. Explains policies
and procedures as well as billing

September 29, 2010

The City Record

21

process. Answers simple billing questions. Informs customers of possible
reasons for high or low bills and the
steps necessary to resolve problems.
Advises them of service programs and
special billings available. Completes
necessary forms, documents, or letters to establish new accounts, establish or terminate service, request
repairs, issue permits, and initiate
account adjustments. Enters information into utility records. Processes
service requests and applications for
various permits. Refers customers to
appropriate offices or agencies.
Follows up with customer if necessary.
Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.

least one year and who received passing Scores shall have ten (10) additional points added to their grades. A
copy of acceptable proofs of residency
is included with each application.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
of
the
Civil
Service
Office
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
No other form will be
Room 119.
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE
CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY
TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE
EXAMINATION ON THE FOLLOWING DATES FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2010 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7,
2010.

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in a call center with an
emphasis in customer service, billing,
and/or service complaints OR two
years of general customer service
experience in a high-volume business
environment is required. Experience
in a utility call center is preferred.
(Substitution: National Professional
Certification in Customer Service
may substitute for 6 months of experience lacking).
Must possess basic
level knowledge of the internet and
MS Office (Word, Excel, Outlook,
etc.) in a Windows-based environment. The ability to speak a second
language is preferred.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee.
Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City
of
Cleveland
are
exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
THOSE
APPLICANTS
WHO
APPLIED FOR THE MOST RECENT
TEST WILL ALSO BE EXEMPT
FROM THE FILING FEE.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person.
All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 64
EMERGENCY
MEDICAL
PATCHER (OPEN)

DIS-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil
Service
Commission
of
Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.50 - $19.86 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2010.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN & TYPING
NOTE:
WRITTEN TEST = 60% OF
FINAL GRADE, TYPING TEST =
40% OF FINAL GRADE, THE WRITTEN TEST WILL BE ADMINISTERED FIRST, CANDIDATES MUST
RECEIVE A PASSING GRADE ON
THE WRITTEN TEST IN ORDER TO
BE ABLE TO TAKE THE TYPING
TEST WHERE A MINIMUM OF 35
WPM IS REQUIRED IN ORDERTO
HAVE THEIR EXAMS GRADED.
FAILURE TO OBTAIN 35 WPM ON
THE TYPING PORTION OF THE
EXAM WILL RESULT IN AN AUTOMATIC SCORE OF ZERO. (FAILURE)
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK OF HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.

Service units on the basis of availability and proximity to the scene of
the requested service as well as coordinates multiple Emergency Medical
Service units and resources from
other agencies. Maintains familiarity
with the streets of Cleveland and various resource agencies used by
Emergency
Medical
Services.
Contacts these agencies as needed,
that is, Police, Fire, Coast Guard, etc.
Maintains proficiency in emergency
medical dispatch in order to achieve
and maintain certification in priority
dispatch. Performs other duties as
assigned or required to meet emergency situations. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam). Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required.
Must have a working
knowledge of computers and be able
to type at least thirty five (35) words
per minute. Must be able to lift and
carry thirty (30) pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
Applicants who are currently
fee.
employed in this position with the
City
of
Cleveland
are
exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person.
All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland and
who received passing Scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with each application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Answers emergency medical telephone calls from citizens, elicits pertinent information, prioritizes the call
using information from the caller,
and assigns the proper priority code.
Operates
Emergency
Medical
Services divisional computers and
radio equipment according to City
and FCC rules and regulations.
Dispatches
Emergency
Medical

1521

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 65
GERIATRIC OUTREACH WORKER
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil
Service
Commission
of
Cleveland, Ohio of an OPEN examination for the above mentioned classification.

The City Record

22
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $21.52 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office
of
the
Civil
Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119.
No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP in the
civil service office TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION ON THE FOLLOWING
DATES FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY,
OCTOBER 1, 2010 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2010.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION

valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Bilingual is preferred.

education and experience at the time
of filing application.

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City
of
Cleveland
are
exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee.

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK OF HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person.
All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.

NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year and who received a
passing scores shall have (10) additional points added to their grades. A
copy of acceptable proofs of residency
is included with each application.

NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 66

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
ALL
INFORMATION
CONAND
TAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK OF HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil
Service
Commission
of
Cleveland, Ohio of an OPEN examination for the above mentioned classification.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

SALARY

Under general supervision, locates
and contacts elderly persons who may
be in need of services. Determines
which services, benefits, or entitlements they may be in greatest need
of.
Determines which agencies or
individuals may best provide the necessary services. Assists the elderly in
making contact with the proper
authorities. Intervenes in crisis situations involving the elderly and performs related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $14.08 - $27.97 per hour.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Four years of full time experience in Human Services dealing
with older persons is required.
(Substitution: A Bachelor’s Degree in
Gerontology, Education, Social Work,
or a closely related field from a fouryear accredited college or university
may substitute for experience.)
A

September 29, 2010

MECHANICAL INSPECTOR (OPEN)

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office
of
the
Civil
Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119.
No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP IN THE
CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY
TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE
EXAMINATION ON THE FOLLOWING DATES FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2010 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7,
2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2010.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her

1522

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
the
supervision
of
the
Under
Commissioner of Code Enforcement
makes inspections of residential and
commercial buildings and structures
for the purposes of ensuring compliance with laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations relating to the design,
installation, maintenance, alteration,
repair, relocation, replacement, addition to, use, and inspection of mechanical systems that are permanently
installed and utilized to provide control of environmental conditions and
related processes. Performs related
duties as required that pertain to
of
the
Cleveland
enforcement
Housing, Building, and Zoning Codes
as well as the Ohio Building,
Residential, and Mechanical Codes.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
(Note: this classification utilizes the
working title of Mechanical Inspector
I, II, or III, depending on the certifications held. Also, employees must be
in each level at least one year before
going on to the next level.) A High
School Diploma or GED is required.
One of the two is required: Three
years of full time paid experience as a
skilled HVAC system and associated
refrigeration, fuel, gas, and heating
pipe tradesman for work subject to
inspection under a model building
code of a national model code organization or a code adopted for non-residential buildings or structures within
the scope of groups regulated by the
rules of the Board or experience as
specified in section 103.3.3(2) OR; successful completion of the trainee program pursuant to section 103.3.9. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required.
State of Ohio Board of
Building Standards (OBBS) certification as a Mechanical Inspector and
OBBS certification as a Residential
Building Inspector is required. Must
have and maintain certifications
throughout employment. In addition
to the above:
(A) Mechanical
Inspector I (Substitution: An OBBS
interim certification as a Mechanical
Inspector and an interim certification
as a Residential Building Inspector
may
substitute
for
Mechanical
Inspector and Residential Building
Inspector
certifications.)
(B)
Mechanical Inspector II - Must have
passed the B2 Commercial Building
Inspector examination through the
international Code Council (ICC) per
the inspector incentive schedule or

September 29, 2010
the 1B Building General through the
NCPCC. (C) Mechanical Inspector III
– Must have passed the 77 Commercial
Energy
Inspector
examination
through the ICC per the inspector
incentive schedule.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee.
Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City
of
Cleveland
are
exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person.
All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 67
SUPERVISOR OF VITAL STATISTICS (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil
Service
Commission
of
Cleveland, Ohio of an OPEN examination for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $54,163.56 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office
of
the
Civil
Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119.
No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE
CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY
TO TAKE
THE CIVIL SERVICE
EXAMINATION ON THE FOLLOWING DATES FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2010 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7,
2010.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2010.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her

The City Record
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
ALL
INFORMATION
CONAND
TAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK OF HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under direction, supervises the work
performed by the Vital Statistics
staff.
Audits work for compliance
with quality assurance and insurance
Supervises and conrequirements.
trols
the
receipt
of
monies.
Supervises the registration of births
and deaths within the City. Prepares
routine reports. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows
all operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
in
accordance
with
equipment
Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required.
A Bachelor’s Degree in
Finance, Economics, or related field
from a four year accredited college or
university is required. Two years of
full time paid accounting experience
as well as three years of management
is required. (Substitution: One year of
experience will substitute for each
year of college education lacking.)
Should possess strong customer service skills.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee.
Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City
of
Cleveland
are
exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person.
All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President
September 29, 2010

1523

23
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2010
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 10-166: 4594 Rocky
River Drive (Ward 19)
Cleveland Muslim Community Center, owner, appeals for expansion of
use from one family dwelling unit
to include a school in a Two-Family District, pursuant to Section
337.03 and by reference from a One
District,
Sections
Family
337.02(f)(3), a school if located less
than 30 feet from any adjoining
premises in a residence district, not
used for a similar purpose, is subject to the review and approval of
the Board of Zoning Appeals and
the proposed school is surrounded
by a residence district.
Calendar No. 10-167: 4600 Rocky
River Drive (Ward 19)
Cleveland Muslim Community Center, owner, appeals to construct a
parking lot in a Two-Family District
subject to the restrictions of Section
337.03 the use requires Board of Zoning Appeals approval pursuant to
Section 349.13 and accessory offstreet parking spaces shall be provided with wheel or bumper guards
located so that no part of a parked
vehicle extends beyond the parking
space pursuant to Section 349.07;
landscaping detail is required and
an island strip shall have a minimum area of 100 square feet each
and be separated by no more than
20 parking spaces in accordance
with Sections 352.10 ad 352.10(e) of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-168: 4568 Rocky
River Drive (Ward 19)
Cleveland Muslim Community Center, owner, appeals to construct a
parking lot on a 157' x 194.45' lot
in a Two-Family District and subject to the restrictions of Section
337.03 the use requires Board of Zoning Appeals approval pursuant to
Section 349.13, and accessory offstreet parking spaces shall be provided with wheel or bumper guards
located so that no part of a parked
vehicle extends beyond the parking
space pursuant to Section 349.07;
landscaping detail is required and
an island strip shall have a minimum area of 100 square feet each
and be separated by no more than
20 parking spaces in accordance
with Sections 352.10 ad 352.10(e) of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-169: 4431 West 130th
Street (Ward 18)
Abrams family Properties LLC,
owner, and Shelly Materials, Inc.,
tenant, appeal for a change of use
to an asphalt concrete mixing site
on acreage in a B3 General Industry District subject to the limitations of Section 345.04(b)(1) not permitted and first allowed in an Unrestricted Industry District in accordance with Section 345.05; and with
the provisions of Section 349.04(j)
requires one parking space for each
three employees expected to be on
the premises during the largest
work shift period or a total parking
area equivalent to 25 percent of the
gross
floor
area,
whichever
is
greater.

The City Record

24
Calendar No. 10-170: 17119 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 19)
Patrick Campbell, owner, appeals
for an expansion of an existing bar
and restaurant use to include the
basement and second floor, live
and
a
dance
entertainment
studio/school in a Local Retail Business District; subject to the limitations of Section 343.01 live entertainment is not permitted and first
allowed in a General Retail District
and it abuts a Two-Family District
contrary to Section 347.12(a)(1) and
is not permitted within 500 feet of
a residential district, nor is it
allowed to be established within 500
feet of another such use by the limitations of Section 343.11(a)(2); and
the expansion/addition of nonconforming use requires the Board of
Zoning Appeals approval in accordance with the provisions of Section
359.01 of the Cleveland, Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-174: 3849 West 25th
Street (Ward 3)
WHS Realty Services, Inc., owner,
and Happy’s Pizza Holdings LLC,
prospective tenant, appeal to establish use as a restaurant in an existing building located on a corner parcel in a Local Retail Business District; contrary to Section 352.08
through 352.11 and the requirement
for a landscaping strip 6 feet wide
at the front and side street yard
frontage along West 25th Street and
Denison Avenue.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2010
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, September 27, 2010, the following appeals
were heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 10-158: 6401 Midtown
Commerce Park Drive
Ardent
Products
Corporation
appealed to establish a light industrial use with light warehousing on
acreage located in zoning for Midtown Mixed Use District 1 and District 4.
Calendar No. 10-133: 2814 Detroit
Avenue
Bounce Properties, LLC appealed
to construct a 703 square foot outdoor patio deck to a legal nonconforming night club in a Semi-Industry District; subject to conditions.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

Calendar No. 10-145: 3870 West 25th
Street aka Pearl Road
Frank J. Gallo appealed from a
Notice of Violation issued by the
Department of Building and Housing.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 10-148: 3207 West 65th
Street postponed to November 1,
2010.
Calendar No. 10-155: 5905 Thackeray
Avenue postponed to October 18,
2010.
Calendar No. 10-156: 5911 Thackeray
Avenue postponed to October 18,
2010.

September 29, 2010

Calendar No. 10-157: 5917 Thackeray
Avenue postponed to October 18,
2010.
The following appeals scheduled
for postponement hearing on October 12, 2010 were postponed to October 18, 2010:
Calendar No. 10-150: 15225 Ohio
Avenue postponed to October 18,
2010.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

Calendar No. 10-151: 14905 Naples
Avenue postponed to October 18,
2010.

NONE

Calendar No. 10-152: 14509 Naples
Avenue postponed to October 18,
2010.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

The following appeals heard by
the Board on September 20, 2010
were adopted and approved on September 27, 2010.

Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning

The
following
Approved:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 10-147: 4472 West 134th
Street
Valarie Burrell appealed to erect
an L-shaped wheelchair ramp in the
front yard of a dwelling in a OneFamily District.
Calendar No. 10-153: 10701 Shaker
Boulevard
Sprngfield Investment Properties
LLC appealed to install 1,056 linear
feet of ornamental steel fence 6 feet
high in a General Retail Business
District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 10-130: 18200 Lorain
Avenue
Fairview Hospital appealed to
construct a parking lot on consolidated parcels located in Multi-Family and One-Family Districts.
Calendar No. 10-134: 10660 Carnegie
Avenue
Tudor Arms Hotel, LLC appealed
to expand a parking lot on consolidated parcels in a General Retail
Business District.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on August 16, 2010 will be
rescheduled for reconsideration by
the Board on October 18, 2010:
Calendar No. 10-67: 2388 West 6th
Street
Nancy Corral Trust appealed to
erect a two-story frame single family
residence
with
an
attached
garage in a B1 Two-Family District;
subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 10-68: 2379 West 6th
Street
Nancy Corral Trust appealed to
erect a two-story frame single family
residence
with
an
attached
garage in a B1 Two-Family District;
subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 10-69: 2382 West 6th
Street
Nancy Corral Trust appealed to
erect a two-story frame single family
residence
with
an
attached
garage in a B1 Two-Family District;
subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 10-70: 2387 West 7th
Street
Nancy Corral Trust appealed to
erect a two-story frame single family
residence
with
an
attached
garage in a B1 Two-Family District;
subject to conditions.
Secretary

1524

_____________

Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, October 13, 2010
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, October 13, 2010, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 730-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands on the south side
of Holmden Avenue to Two Family
Residential District (Map Change
No. 2310; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 732-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands at the intersection
of Professor St. & Starkweather Ave.
shown shaded on the attached map
to
Local
Retail
Business
(Map
Change No. 2314; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 733-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands bounded by Kenilworth
Ave.,
Starkweather
Ave.,
West 11th St. and W. 14th St., shown
shaded on the attached map, to an
Open Space and Recreation District
(Map Change No. 2311; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 734-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands known as City of
Cleveland’s Clark Field recreation
site including land at I490 and
Quigley Roads, shown shaded on the
attached map to an Open Space and
Recreation District (Map Change
No. 2312; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 1076-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land located near the
southwest corner of Rowley Avenue
and West 11th Street from Two
Family Residential to Local Retail
Business (Map Change No. 2336;
Sheet No. 6).
Ord. No. 1077-10.
By Council Members Dow and J.
Johnson.
An
ordinance
establishing
the
Superior Avenue Design Review District (Map Change No. 2337, Sheet
No. 4).

September 29, 2010
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
September 29, 2010 and October 6, 2010

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

The City Record
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2010
File No. 155-2010 — Commercial
Gases, for the various Divisions
of City government, Department
of Finance, as authorized by Section 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2010 AT 10:30
A.M. THE CITY OF CLEVELAND, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM 128,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

For All Departments

September 29, 2010 and October 6, 2010

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2010

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2010
File No. 150-2010 — Messenger Services, for the Various Divisions
of City Government, Department of
Finance, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2010 AT
2:30 P.M. THE CITY OF CLEVELAND, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM 128,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
September 15, 2010, September 22, 2010
and September 29, 2010

File No. 153-2010 — Purchase of Various Types of Safety Equipment
Required for OSHA/PERRP Compliance, for the Divisions of Water,
Cleveland Public Power and Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 870-10, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
August 18, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2010 AT 2:30
P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 154-2010 — Disposal of
Debris at Landfills, for the Divisions of Water, Cleveland Public
Power and Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 805-10
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, July 14, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2010
AT 10:30 A.M. THE DISTRIBUTION & MAINTENANCE, 4600
HARVARD AVENUE, SECOND
FLOOR
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
September 29, 2010 and October 6, 2010

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 1078-10.
By Council Members Polensek,
Brancatelli, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency resolution approving the City’s participation in and
formation of the City of ClevelandFirst Suburbs Development Council
Advanced Energy Special Improvement District; authorizing the execution and delivery of a Petition
and approving the Petition, Articles
of Incorporation, and Initial Plan of
the City of Cleveland-First Suburbs
Development
Council
Advanced
Energy Special Improvement District; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas, Chapter 1710 of the Ohio
Revised Code (the “Revised Code”)
authorizes the formation of special
improvement districts within the
boundaries of a municipality, or any
combination of contiguous municipal corporations, to allow property

1525

25
owners to assess themselves to pay
costs of developing and implementing plans for public improvements
and public services that benefit the
special improvement district, including special energy improvement projects which are defined in Chapter
1710 of the Revised Code to mean
“any property, device, structure or
equipment necessary for the acquisition, installation, equipping and
improvement of any real or personal property used for the purpose of
creating a solar photovoltaic project, a solar thermal energy project,
a geothermal energy project, a customer-generated energy project, or
an energy efficiency improvement,
whether such real or personal property is publicly or privately owned.”;
and
Whereas, the City of ClevelandFirst Suburbs Development Council
Advanced Energy Special Improvement District is the short name for
the special improvement district
being authorized hereby for the purpose of developing and implementing
plans
for
special
energy
improvement projects in the City
and a combination of contiguous
municipal corporations, a petition is
required to be signed by one hundred percent of the owners of the
area of all real property located
within the proposed special improvement district (the “Petition”), at
least one special energy improvement project shall be designated for
each parcel of real property within
the special improvement district,
and the special improvement district
may include any number of parcels
of real property as determined by
the legislative authority of each participating political subdivision in
which the proposed special improvement district is to be located; and
Whereas, Chapter 1710 of the
Revised Code provides that no special
improvement
district
may
include any property of federal or
state government or a county, township
or
municipal
corporation,
unless the county, township or
municipal corporation specifically
requests in writing that the property
be
included
in
the
special
improvement district, and further
provides that the territory in a special improvement district may contain non-contiguous parcels of real
property if all parcels of real property included in the District contain
at least one special energy improvement project and 100% of the owners of the parcels of real property
in the District sign a petition
requesting inclusion in the District.
District
boundaries
can
include
parcels of real property located in
multiple municipal corporations or
townships, so long as each of the
municipal corporations or townships
is contiguous to one another; and
Whereas, the District is to be governed by the board of trustees of a
nonprofit corporation (the “Corporation”) to be formed under Chapters
1702 and 1710 of the Revised Code,
and the articles of incorporation
establishing the Corporation to be
filed with the Ohio Secretary of
State in accordance with this resolution shall include the official
names of the District and Corporation when each participating political subdivision of the District has
been determined pursuant to and in
accordance with this resolution; and
Whereas, under Section 1710.02(F)
of the Revised Code, a proposed initial plan for special energy improvement projects benefitting the district (the “Plan”) has been submit-

26
ted to the City as part of the Petition proposing the creation of the
District; and
Whereas, the Petition and Plan
and the Articles of Incorporation of
the
Corporation
(the
“Articles”)
have been filed with the Mayor and
the Clerk of Council of the City in
File No. 1078-10-A; and
Whereas, adoption of this resolution represents the first legislative
step in the process of creating the
District (hereinafter referred to as
the “Advanced Energy District”),
which will likely be the first special
improvement district created for the
purpose of developing and implementing plans for special energy
improvement
projects
under
the
amendments to Chapter 1710 of the
Revised Code and which may be the
first or one of the first multi-jurisdictional urban-first ring suburban
Property Assessed Clean Energy
(PACE) programs in the United
States; and
Whereas, the Mayors and the Economic Development Directors of the
City of Cleveland and member communities of the First Suburbs Consortium Development Council are
requesting this Council to approve
the creation of the Advanced Energy District and a pilot program to
be marketed to commercial and
industrial property owners within
the City of Cleveland and each of
the participating municipal corporations in the Advanced Energy District that will (i) provide commercial and industrial property owners
who desire to generate electricity on
their properties the ability to pursue
long term special assessment financing, (ii) use authority under Chapters 1710 and 4928 of the Revised
Code to permit these property owners to participate in various federal
and state grant and tax incentives
that will lower the property owner’s
electric utility bills; (iii) lower the
carbon footprint of the region; and
(iv)
create
economies
of
scale
through joining with other participating municipal corporations to
achieve results listed in items (i)
through (iii); and
Whereas, in order to create a common plan for the development of
special energy improvement projects
in the Advanced Energy District
and achieve certain economies of
scale needed to lower special energy improvement project financing
costs, the Mayors and Economic
Development Directors of the City of
Cleveland and the participating contiguous member communities of the
First Suburbs Consortium Development Council are requesting that
each contiguous municipal corporation wishing to participate in the
Advanced Energy District join the
Advanced Energy District as initial
members. To do this each City Council is being requested to approve the
development of a demonstration special energy improvement project
that will be located on land owned
by the participating municipal corporation and then approve the execution and delivery of a Petition
that requests in writing that the
municipally owned real property
where the special energy improvement project will be developed be
included in the Advanced Energy
District.
By each participating
municipal corporation becoming the
initial members of the District and
approving the same plan, special
energy improvement projects developed by commercial-industrial property owners in each City participating in the Advanced Energy District

The City Record
will be able to join the Advanced
Energy District to develop their special energy improvement projects
according to one Advanced Energy
District plan approved by each participating
municipal
corporation.
The City Councils of each of the
participating member communities
of the First Suburbs Consortium
Development Council have adopted
or will be adopting resolutions similar to this resolution. The costs of
developing and financing special
energy improvement projects and
providing services to and operating
the Advanced Energy District are
anticipated to be assessed to the
commercial-industrial property owners
developing
special
energy
improvement projects in the District
and will not be financed with general obligation bonds of the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver
the Petition on behalf of the City in
substantially the form on file with
the Clerk of Council, together with
such revisions and additions as are
approved by the Director of Law as
being consistent with the objectives
and requirements of this resolution,
including the addition of the names
and related information of those
member communities of the FirstSuburbs
Consortium
Development
Council that have or will approve,
execute and deliver the Petition and
Plan of the Advanced Energy District as participating municipal corporation and all of such approvals
and authorizations shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution
and delivery of the Petition by said
officers.
Section 2 That the Petition as executed and delivered as provided for
in
Section
1
hereof
is
hereby
approved and further that the Articles
of
Incorporation
of
the
Advanced Energy District are hereby approved in substantially the
form now on file with the Clerk of
Council, together with such revisions and additions to the Articles
of Incorporation as are approved by
the Director of Law as being consistent with the objectives and
requirements
of
this
resolution,
including such revisions to the Articles of Incorporation to reflect the
participating municipal corporations
in the Advanced Energy District,
which approval by the Director of
Law shall be conclusively evidenced
by a certificate executed by the
Director of Law approving the Articles of Incorporation as being in
accordance with this resolution.
Section 3. That the Petition represents the request in writing of the
City of Cleveland for inclusion into
the Advanced Energy District of certain real property owned by the
City, as defined below and more particularly described in the Petition on
file with the Clerk of Council.
Section 4. That, under Chapter
1710 of the Revised Code, the Petition and the Articles, there is hereby established a special improvement district to be known as the
Advanced Energy District, and the
City’s participation in the Advanced
Energy District is hereby authorized
with the approval of this Council
herein of the inclusion of the fol-

1526

September 29, 2010
lowing
City-owned
property
for
powered
security
lighting
solar
installations:
Humphrey Park
16166 Grovewood Ave.
Cleveland, OH 44110
Permanent Parcel Number 113-18014
as more particularly described in
the Petition on file with the Clerk
of Council.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development shall be the
City Council appointee to the board
of directors of the Advanced Energy District.
Section 6. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to file or
cause to be filed a copy of the Articles of Incorporation, together with
such revisions and additions to the
Articles of Incorporation as are
approved by the Director of Law as
being consistent with the objectives
and requirements of this resolution
and the Revised Code, the approval
of the Director of Law and a copy
of this resolution with the Ohio Secretary of State.
Section 7. That this Council finds
and determines that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
resolution were adopted in an open
meeting of the Council and that all
deliberations of the Council and of
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meeting open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 8. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Res. No. 1263-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 1104 Rowley Avenue, 1st floor
and basement and repealing Resolution No. 1059-10, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to Rowley Inn, 1104 Rowley
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109 by Resolution
No. 1059-10 adopted by the Council
on August 18, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a D2,
D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
Rowley Inn, 1104 Rowley Avenue,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
6985049 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 105910, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.

September 29, 2010
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Res. No. 1264-10.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a C1, C2 and D6
Liquor Permit at 4702 Memphis
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 840-10, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a
C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to
Enterprise,
Inc.,
DBA
Badah
Gasway #2, 4702 Memphis Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent
No. 03701920001, adopted by the
Council on June 7, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That objection to a C1,
C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to Badah
Enterprise, Inc., DBA Gasway #2,
4702 Memphis Avenue, Cleveland,
44144,
Permanent
Number
Ohio
03701920001 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
840-10, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Res. No. 1265-10.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3691
West 105th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Layaa, Inc.,
DBA Star Value, 3691 West 105th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number
50687700005
to
Sranan, LLC, 3691 West 105th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 8457477; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and

The City Record
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Layaa, Inc.,
DBA Star Value, 3691 West 105th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number
50687700005
to
Sranan, LLC, 3691 West 105th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 8457477; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Res. No. 1266-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
5110 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Clark Petroleum, LLC, 5110 Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number
15255190005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is

1527

27
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirement of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Clark Petroleum,
LLC, 5110 Clark Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
Permanent
Number
15255190005; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Res. No. 1267-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 5110
Clark Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Zaben, Inc.,
5110 Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102,
Permanent
Number
98723320005
to
Clark
Petroleum,
LLC, 5110 Clark Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
Permanent
Number
1525519; and

28
Whereas,
the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Zaben, Inc., 5110
Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permanent Number 98723320005 to
Clark Petroleum, LLC, 5110 Clark
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number
1525519;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Ord. No. 837-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 187.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1260-08,
passed November 30, 2009, relating
to the definition of contract to

The City Record
exclude loans under $50,000 for
storefront renovation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 187.01 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
1260-08,
passed
November 30, 2009, is amended to
read as follows:
187.01 Definitions of Terms
As used in this Chapter, the following words, phrases, and terms
shall be defined as set forth below:
(a) “Administrator” means the
employee or employees in the OEO
designated by the Director to act as
an administrator of the Cleveland
Area Business Program.
(b) “Bidder” means a Person offering to contract with the City in
response to an invitation to bid, and
for purposes of this Code, includes
a proposer in response to a request
for proposals or other similar solicitation.
(c) “Bid Discount” means the
application of a percentage discount
to the total amount of a bid submitted by a Bidder for a Contract
solely for the purpose of bid comparisons when evaluating the lowest
and best bid, or lowest responsible
bid. The use of a Bid Discount for
Bid Comparison does not alter the
total amount of the bid submitted by
a Bidder or the Contract executed
based on a bid.
(d) “Business Enterprise” means a
firm, sole proprietorship, partnership, association, corporation, company, or other business entity of any
kind including, but not limited to, a
limited liability corporation, incorporated
professional
association,
joint venture, estate, or trust.
(e) “City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
(f) “City of Cleveland Small Business” or “CCSB” means a CSB that
has its principal office located physically within the municipal boundaries of the City.
(g)
“Cleveland
Area
Business
Code”, “Cleveland Area Business
Program”, “Code” or “Chapter” means
all of the provisions of this Chapter
187 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
(h) “Cleveland Area Small Business” or “CSB” means a Business
Enterprise certified under division
(a) of Section 187.03.
(i) “Cleveland Contracting Market” or “Contracting Market” means
the geographic market area consisting of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, or
the geographic market area identified in a disparity study or otherwise as provided in Section 187.28.
(j) “Commercially Useful Function” means execution by a CSB,
MBE, or FBE of a distinct element
of the work in carrying out its
responsibilities by actually performing, managing, and supervising the
work involved by its personnel,
materials, and assets. To determine
whether a Business Enterprise is
performing a Commercially Useful
Function, the City will evaluate the
amount of the Contractor’s work
which is appropriate to be subcontracted and actually subcontracted,
industry practices, and other relevant factors tending to demonstrate
actual performance.

1528

September 29, 2010
(k) “Construction” means the erection, rehabilitation, alteration, conversion, extension, demolition or
repair of improvements to real property, including facilities providing
utility service and includes the
supervision, inspection, and other
on-site functions incidental to construction.
(l) “Contract” means a binding
agreement executed on or after the
effective date of this Cleveland Area
Business Code by which the City
either grants a privilege or is committed to expend or does expend its
funds or other resources, or confers
a benefit having monetary value
including, but not limited to, a
grant, loan, interest in real or personal property, or tax incentive in
any form for or in connection with
any work, project, or public purpose
including, but not limited to, a contract for the:
(1) Construction of any public improvement, including change orders
or subsidiary agreements approved
by the City during the performance
of such Construction;
(2) Purchase of personal property;
(3) Purchase of any supplies,
equipment or services;
(4) Lease by way of concession
under Section 183.03;
(5) Lease of any personal property; or
(6) Grant by concession agreement of a specific permission, privilege, or license under sections
183.04, 183.041, and 184.044 of the
Codified Ordinances.
“Contract” shall include a binding
agreement, funded or benefited by
the City, between a party to a Contract and a third party, but shall
exclude contracts with other public
entities, except as provided in Section 187.09. For purposes of MBE
and
FBE
utilization,
“Contract”
shall only include the specific types
and categories of Contracts and Contractors identified in a disparity
study or otherwise as the subject of
past or present discrimination as
provided in Section 187.28. “Contract”
shall exclude loans and grants
under $50,000 for storefront renovation. The exclusion of loans and
grants under $50,000 for storefront
renovation shall expire and have no
further force and effect on January
1, 2012, unless changed by further
legislation of this Council.
(m) “Contracting Department” includes any administrative department under charge of the Mayor or
any office, board, or commission
treated or construed as a department of City government for any
purpose under the Charter or ordinances of the City for the benefit or
program of which the City enters
into a particular Contract.
(n) “Contractor” means a separate
or distinguishable Business Enterprise employing one or more persons
and participating in the performance of a Contract, including but
not limited to CSBs, MBEs and
FBEs where applicable, and shall
include a party in privity with a
Contractor for implementation of a
Contract.
(o) “Control” means the unencumbered ability to direct operations
and management.
(p) “Director” means the Director
of the Office of Equal Opportunity.
(q) “Disability” means any physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of an
individual’s major life activities.

September 29, 2010
(r) “Discriminate” means to exclude an individual or group solely
on the basis of race, religion, color,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin,
age, Disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era or disabled-veteran status.
(s) “Discriminate on the basis of
age” means to Discriminate as determined by appropriate Federal
law against individuals over the age
of forty (40).
(t) “Evaluation Credit” means a
predetermined number of points in
the evaluation of proposals submitted by a Bidder for a Contract to be
added solely for the purpose of proposal comparison when evaluating
competing proposals. The use of
Evaluation Credits does not alter
the amount of the proposal submitted by a Bidder or the Contract executed based on the proposal.
(u) “Female” includes only a United States citizen or lawful, permanent resident who is a member of
the female gender.
(v) “Female Business Enterprise”
or “FBE” means a Business Enterprise owned, operated, and controlled by one or more Females who
have 51% ownership. The one or
more Females must have operational and managerial Control, interest in capital, and earnings commensurate with the percentage of
Female ownership. To qualify as a
Female Business Enterprise, the
Business Enterprise shall be located
and doing business in the Cleveland
Contracting Market.
(w) “Front Organization” means
any FBE, MBE, or CSB that serves
as a Contractor, or as a subcontractor to any Contractor under Contract, who obtained and/or retained
certification through false statements or who committed to performance of a distinct element of the
work under the Contract but did not
carry out its responsibilities by actually performing, managing or supervising the work involved, or who
did not provide products, services,
goods or supplies in a manner, in
the Director’s determination, consistent with its certification.
(x) “Gender identity or expression” means the gender-related identity, external presentation of gender
identity
through
appearance,
or
mannerism or other gender-related
characteristics
of
an
individual,
regardless of the individual’s designated sex at birth.
(y) “Joint venture” means an association of two or more persons or
businesses to carry out a single
business enterprise for profit for
which purpose they combine their
property, capital, efforts, skills and
knowledge.
(z) “Minority Person” means a
United States citizen or lawful, permanent resident who is a member of
a racial or ethnic group, such as
African American, Hispanic American, Asian American or Native
American, against whom past or present discrimination has been demonstrated as provided in Section 187.28.
(aa) “Minority Business Enterprise” or “MBE” means a Business
Enterprise owned, operated and controlled by one or more Minority Persons who have at least 51% ownership. The Minority Person(s) must
have operational and managerial
Control, interest in capital, and
earnings commensurate with the
percentage of ownership. To qualify
as a Minority Business Enterprise,
the enterprise shall be located and

The City Record
doing business in the Cleveland Contracting Market.
(bb) “OEO” means the Office of
Equal Opportunity of the City of
Cleveland.
(cc) “Person” means and includes
a natural person, a Business Enterprise or other entity, unless the context or usage requires otherwise.
(dd) “Public Improvement” means
a project determined by the City
Council to be a public improvement
under Section 167 of the Cleveland
City Charter.
(ee) “Regional Cleveland Area
Small Business” or “RCSB” means a
CSB that has its principal office
located physically within the territorial boundaries of Cuyahoga County but outside the municipal boundaries of the City.
(ff) “Regulation” or “Regulations”
means and includes the regulations
implementing this Code and promulgated by the Director of Equal
Opportunity under division (b)(6) of
Section 123.08 of these Codified Ordinances.
(gg) “Sexual Orientation” means a
person’s actual or perceived homosexuality, bisexuality, or heterosexuality, by orientation or practice.
(hh) “Small Business Enterprise”
or “SBE” means a Business Enterprise that meets the established economic criteria for a SBE and is
owned, operated and controlled by
one or more persons who meet the
economic criteria for SBE ownership
established by the Director in the
Regulations.
(ii) “Supplier” means a Business
Enterprise performing a Commercially Useful Function in the supply
process when it:
(1) Assumes the actual and contractual responsibility for furnishing the supplies or materials;
(2) Is recognized as a distributor
of the contracted supplies and materials by the industry involved;
(3) Owns or leases a warehouse,
yard, building or other facilities for
stocking inventory or otherwise conducts business in a manner which is
usual and customary in the industry
and market for the supplies or materials; and
(4) Distributes, delivers, and services products primarily with its
own staff and/or equipment.
Section 2. That existing Section
187.01 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1260-08, passed
November 30, 2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 20, 2010.
Awaiting approval or disapproval
of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1046-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 4798 East 178th Street
to Theoderus Bennett.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722

1529

29
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Theoderus Bennett.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 143-20-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Warrensville Township Lot
No. 93, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
proposed East 178th Street, said
Westerly line being parallel to and
1192.50 feet Easterly (measured at
right angles) from the Westerly line
of
the
second
parcel
of
land
described in the Deed from John B.
Corlett and others, to William J.
Lang dated February 1, 1916, and
recorded in Volume 1745, Page 592
of Cuyahoga County Records at a
point 400.89 feet Northerly (measured along said Westerly line and
the Southerly prolongation thereof)
from the Southerly line of third parcel of land so conveyed to William
J. Lang; thence Northerly along said
Westerly line of proposed East 178th
Street, 42 feet; thence Westerly on a
line at right angles with said Westerly line of proposed East 178th
Street 150 feet; thence Southerly on
a line parallel to said Westerly line
of proposed East 178th Street, 42
feet; thence Easterly 150 feet to
place of beginning, and being further known as Sublot No. 714 in
William J. Lang’s proposed Lee
Heights Allotment, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by

The City Record

30
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Ord. No. 1074-10.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
located
at
16320-22
Telfair
and
Avenue to Barry K. Dowdell.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Barry
K. Dowdell.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 143-02-055

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and bounded and described as
follows, to wit: and known as being
Sublot No. 70 in H.J. Sheets’ Lee
Road Subdivision of part of Original
Warrensville Township Lot No. 91,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 87 of Maps, Page 35 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Southerly side of
Telfair Avenue, and extending back
of
equal
width
156.37
feet,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months

of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Ord. No. 1180-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the second option to renew Contract No. 68392 with Dell, Inc. to provide computer hardware and software for the various divisions of
City government.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 269-08, passed March
10, 2008, the Director of Finance
entered into Contract No. 68392 with
Dell, Inc. to provide computer hardware and software for the various
divisions of City government; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 269-08
requires further legislation before
exercising the second option to
renew on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to exercise
the second option to renew Contract
No. 68392 for an additional year, in
the
approximate
amount
of
$1,500,000 with Dell, Inc., for the
requirements for an additional year
of computer hardware and software,
for the various divisions of City government. This ordinance constitutes
the additional legislative authority
required by Ordinance No. 269-08 to
exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

1530

September 29, 2010
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Ord. No. 1181-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1384-09,
passed October 5, 2009, as amended
by Ordinance No. 894-10, passed July
14, 2010, relating to designating the
City of Cleveland as a recovery zone
for the purpose of issuing recovery
zone economic development bonds or
recovery zone facility bonds and
allocating the City’s recovery zone
facility bonds volume cap limitation
to finance a portion of the costs of
constructing the Flats East Development Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1384-09, passed October 5,
2009, as amended by Ordinance No.
894-10, passed July 14, 2010, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 3. That this Council authorizes the entire allocation of its
Recovery Zone Facility Bond Volume
Cap to Flats East Development LLC
for the issuance of the Flats East
Bonds to finance the Flats East
Bank Project. This Council hereby
authorizes the CPPA, SCPA, and
Treasurer to issue Recovery Zone
Facility Bonds for the Flats East
Bank Project. This allocation is contingent upon bond counsel delivering
a satisfactory opinion to the City
that the issuance and use of proceeds
of the Flats East Bonds comply with
the requirements of the Code, including Code Sections 1400U-1 through
1400U-3, and the City being provided
with
satisfactory
indemnification
from any liability arising from the
issuance of the bonds. This allocation will terminate on December 31,
2010 unless the Flats East Bonds are
issued on or before December 31,
2010.
Section 2. That existing Section 3
of Ordinance No. 1384-09, passed
October 5, 2009, as amended by Ordinance No. 894-10, passed July 14,
2010, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Ord. No. 1182-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of ready mix
concrete, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Finance.

September 29, 2010
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a period of one year, with one option
to renew for an additional one year
period, exercisable by the Director
of Finance, of the necessary items
of
ready
mix
concrete,
in
the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government, Department of
Finance. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a delivery order
against the contract or contracts
certified by the Director of Finance.
(RQN 1505 RL 2010-47)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Finance
may sign all documents that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into one or more contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Ord. No. 1258-10.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment Financing Agreement with
Dunham Square Land, LLC, or its
designee; to provide for the construction
of
a
multi-tenant
office/technology center located at
6700 Euclid Avenue; to provide for
payments to the Cleveland City
School District; and to declare certain improvements to real property
to be a public purpose.
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, improvements to

The City Record
real property may be declared to be
a public purpose where fee title to
the real property was, at one time,
held by the City of Cleveland and
the real property is then leased or
conveyed by the City; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 795-10, passed June 7,
2010, as amended by Ordinance No.
1039-10, passed August 18, 2010, and
prior to the adoption of this ordinance, the City approved both the
acquisition and conveyance of fee
title to certain real property, which
is more particularly described in the
documents set forth in the file
described in this ordinance (the
“Real Property”); and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the improvements
declared to be a public purpose may
be exempt from real property taxation; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the owners of the
improvements may be required to
make annual service payments in
lieu of taxes that would have been
paid had the improvement not been
exempt; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the exemption
may exceed 75% of the improvements for up to 30 years when a portion of the service payments so collected are distributed to the Cleveland City School District (“District”)
in an amount equal to the amount
the District would have received
had
the
improvement
not
been
exempt; and
Whereas, the District has been
notified of the intent to enter into
the agreement authorized by this
ordinance in compliance with Sections 5709.41(C)(4) and 5709.83 of
the Revised Code; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the real property
improvements to be constructed by
Dunham Square Land, LLC, or its
designee (“Redeveloper”), to provide
for the construction of a multi-tenant office/technology center located
at 6700 Euclid Avenue (“Improvements”), are declared to be a public
purpose for purposes of Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code, and are
more fully described in File No.
1258-10-A.
Section 2. That one hundred percent (100%) of the Improvements
are declared exempt from real property taxation for a period of 30
years; and that in no event shall the
exemption period extend beyond
2040.
Section 3. That, under Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code, Redeveloper (or the owners of the
Improvements) shall make service
payments for a period of 20 years in
lieu of the exempt taxes to the
Cuyahoga County Treasurer; the
payments shall be charged and collected in the same manner, and shall
be in an amount not less than the
taxes that would have been paid
had the Improvements not been
exempt from taxation.
Section 4. That a portion of the
service payments collected under
Section 3 of this ordinance shall be
distributed by the Cuyahoga County
Treasurer to the Treasurer of the
District in the amount of the taxes
that would have been payable to the

1531

31
District had the Improvement not
been exempt from taxation.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement or
agreements with Redeveloper to provide for the exemption and service
payments described in this ordinance, including agreements securing the payments described in Section 3 of this ordinance, which
agreement or agreements shall contain those terms contained in the
file mentioned above.
Section 6. That under Section
5709.43 of the Revised Code, there is
established a 6700 Euclid Urban
Redevelopment
Tax
Increment
Equivalent Fund (“6700 Euclid TIF
Fund”) which shall be used as a
debt reserve for the loan authorized
by Ordinance No. 711-10, passed June
7, 2010 or for other economic development purposes as determined by
the Director of Economic Development.
Section 7. That it is found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this ordinance
were adopted in open meetings of
this Council, and any of its committees that resulted in formal action
were in meetings open to the public
in compliance with the law.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Ord. No. 1261-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 15225 Saranac Road
to
Ishmael
Pettigrew,
or
his
designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Ishmael Pettigrew or his designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:

32
P. P. Nos. 116-09-001, 116-09-003, 11609-044, 116-09-045
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being all of
Sublot No. 2 and parts of Sublot Nos.
1 and 109 in William Packard, Frost
et al. Re-Subdivision of part of Original Euclid Township Tract No. 16,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 35 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 152nd Street, at the Northwesterly corner of Sublot No. 2; thence
Southerly along the Easterly line of
East 152nd Street, 53.90 feet to the
Southwesterly corner thereof; thence
Northeasterly along the Southeasterly line of Sublot No. 2, 150.33 feet to
a point which is distant Southwesterly measured along said Southerly
line, 10 feet from the Southeasterly
corner of Sublot No. 2; thence Southeasterly along a line parallel with
the Northeasterly lines of Sublot
Nos. 1 and 109, about 94 feet to its
intersection with the Northwesterly
line of Saranac Road; thence Northeasterly along the Northerly line of
Saranac Road, 10 feet to the Southwesterly corner of Sublot No. 109:
thence Northerly along the Northeasterly lines of Sublot Nos. 109, 1
and 2, 141.67 feet to the Northeasterly corner of Sublot No. 2; thence
Southwesterly along the Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 2, 140 feet to
the place of beginning, as appears
by said plat be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
Nos. 3 and 4 in Williams, Packard
and others’ Allotment of Blocks “A.
“B”, “C” and “D”, of W.G. Rose’s Subdivision of a part of Original Euclid
Township Tract No. 16, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 9 of
Maps, Page 35 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 100 feet front on
the Northwesterly side of Saranac
Road,
N.E.
(formerly
Collins
Avenue) and extending back 140
feet on the Northeasterly line, 141
feet 8 inches on the Southwesterly
line, and being 80 feet in the rear,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of

The City Record
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Ord. No. 1262-10.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance amending the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1049-10 passed August 18,
2010 as it pertains to the exterior
and interior building renovation
improvements for the Reflections
Beauty Salon through the use of
Ward
9
Neighborhood
Capital
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1049-10
passed August 18, 2010 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
Authorizing the Director of the
Department of Economic Development to enter into an agreement
with Kyra M. Wordlaw & Company,
Inc. for the exterior and interior
building renovation improvements
for the Reflections Beauty Salon
through the use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement with Kyra M. Wordlaw &
Company, Inc. for the exterior and
interior
building
renovation
improvements of the Reflections
Beauty Salon located at 11506 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio for the
public purpose of promoting economic development and new job creation in the city of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1049-10
passed August 18, 2010 are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

1532

September 29, 2010
Ord. No. 1269-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland, and Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance designating East Roadway between Superior Avenue and Rockwell Avenue
with a secondary and honorary designation of “Jesse Owens Way”.
Whereas, Jesse Owens was a 1933
graduate of Cleveland’s East Technical High School; and,
Whereas, Jesse Owens broke political
and
social
barriers
and
achieved international fame at the
1936 Olympics in Berlin, Germany by
winning gold medals in the 100- and
200-meter sprints, the long jump and
as part of the 4 x 100 meter relay
team; and,
Whereas, at a time when Adolf
Hitler was using the Olympic Games
as a vehicle to bolster the “Aryan
race,” Jesse Owens was cheered on
by 110,000 spectators at Berlin’s
Olympic Stadium; and,
Whereas, the citizens of Cleveland
want to honor the legacy of Jesse
Owens with a street sign designation of “Jesse Owens Way”; and,
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That East Roadway
between Superior Avenue and Rockwell Avenue is designated with a
secondary and honorary designation
of “Jesse Owens Way”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

Ord. No. 1270-10.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Hispanic Roundtable to stretch
banners on the north and south side
of 2905 Lorain Avenue for the period from September 17, 2010 to October 16, 2010, inclusive, announcing
the Hispanic Convention 2010.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Hispanic
Roundtable to install, maintain and
remove banners on the north and
south side of 2905 Lorain Avenue,
for the period from September 17,
2010 to October 16, 2010, inclusive.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission

The City Record

September 29, 2010
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
No commercial advertising
permit.
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 20, 2010.
Effective September 22, 2010.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE

33
Authorized
Absence:
Chair; J. Johnson.

Brancatelli,

MEETINGS
Wednesday, September 29, 2010
Monday September 27, 2010
9:00 a.m.
Legislation Committee: Present:
Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson, Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.

10:00 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation ComPresent:
Keane,
Chair;
mittee:
Pruitt, Vice Chair, Cummins, J.
Johnson, Kelley Mitchell. Authorized Absence: K. Johnson
1:30 p.m.

2:00 p.m.
Finance
Committee:
Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Brady,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Pruitt, Westbrook.
Tuesday September 28, 2010
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Dow,
Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins,
Pruitt,
Westbrook,
Zone.
Miller,

City Planning Committee: Present:
Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook, Vice
Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow, Keane,
Zone.
Thursday, September 30, 2010
9:30 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell, Chair; Brady, Cummins,
Zone. Authorized Absence: Polensek,
Vice Chair; Cleveland, Dow, Miller,
Mitchell.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 765-10 — CMSD After-School Education Program
(Ward 01 NEF) (O 1296-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 865-09 — The First Tee of Cleveland & Participant Activity Board
Project (Ward 12 NCF) (O 1291-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Title & Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1049-10 — Reflections Beauty Salon — building renovation
(Ward 9 NCF) (O 1262-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automated phone calls — Integrated Consulting & Management (O 1288-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — TIF agreement — Dumham Square Land — multi-tenant office /
technology center (Euclid Ave., 6700) (O 1258-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531

Banners
Hispanic Roundtable — Lorain Ave., 2905 — Sept. 17 to Oct. 16 — Hispanic Convention 2010 —
Service Department (Ward 03) (O 1270-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Post lights, decorative — per Ord. 1751-09 to KD Lamp Company, Incorporated — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 405-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Post lights, decorative — per Ord. 1751-09 to Westside Lighting Center, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 407-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transformers and accessories — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — bids rejected — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 406-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transformers and accessories — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Shihlin Electric USA Company
Limited — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 404-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Booth space at West Side Market — Growing Communities Initiative — September 29, 2010 —
Charter One Bank (BOC Res. 408-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1520

Board of Control — Permits
Booth space at West Side Market — Growing Communities Initiative — September 29, 2010 —
Charter One Bank — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 408-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1520

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Distribution mains cleaning and cement mortar lining (Effingham Blvd. in City of Euclid) —
per Ord. 1928-07 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc, — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 403-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519
Distribution mains cleaning and cement mortar lining (Village of Newburgh Heights) — per
Ord. 1928-07 to Utilicon Corp. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 401-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518

1533

The City Record

34

September 29, 2010

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Distribution mains cleaning and cement mortar lining (Effingham Blvd. in City of Euclid) —
per Ord. 1928-07 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc, — Division of Water (BOC Res. 403-10) .
Distribution mains cleaning and cement mortar lining (Village of Newburgh Heights) — per
Ord. 1928-07 to Utilicon Corp. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 401-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Post lights, decorative — per Ord. 1751-09 to KD Lamp Company, Incorporated — Division
of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 405-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Post lights, decorative — per Ord. 1751-09 to Westside Lighting Center, Inc. — Division
of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 407-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transformers and accessories — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — bids rejected — Division of
Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 406-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transformers and accessories — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Shihlin Electric USA Company
Limited — Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 404-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area A),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Utilicon Corp. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 398-10) . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area B),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Noce Enterprises Inc. — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 399-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area C),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Noce Enterprises Inc. — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 400-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area D),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Utilicon Corp. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 402-10) . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . 1518
. . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . 1518

. . . . . . . . . . 1518

. . . . . . . . . . 1518
. . . . . . . . . . 1519

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Post lights, decorative — per Ord. 1751-09 to KD Lamp Company, Incorporated — Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 405-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Post lights, decorative — per Ord. 1751-09 to Westside Lighting Center, Inc. — Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 407-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area A),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Utilicon Corp. — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 398-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area B),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Noce Enterprises Inc. — Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 399-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area C),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Noce Enterprises Inc. — Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 400-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area D),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Utilicon Corp. — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 402-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Transformers and accessories — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Shihlin Electric USA Company
Limited — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 404-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519

Board of Control — Water Division
Distribution mains cleaning and cement mortar lining (Effingham Blvd. in City of Euclid) —
per Ord. 1928-07 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc, — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 403-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution mains cleaning and cement mortar lining (Village of Newburgh Heights) — per
Ord. 1928-07 to Utilicon Corp. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 401-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area A),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Utilicon Corp. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 398-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area B),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Noce Enterprises Inc. — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 399-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area C),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Noce Enterprises Inc. — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 400-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area D),
repair or replace — per Ord. 1538-09 to Utilicon Corp. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 402-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519

Board of Control — West Side Market
Booth space — Growing Communities Initiative — September 29, 2010 — Charter One Bank —
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 408-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1520

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Carnegie Avenue, 10660, (Ward 9) – Tudor Arms Hotel, LLC, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-134) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
Detroit Avenue, 2814, (Ward 3) – Bounce Properties, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 9/27/10
(Cal. 10-133) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524

1534

September 29, 2010

The City Record

35

Lorain Avenue, 18200, (Ward 19) – Fairview General Hospital, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-130) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Midtown Commerce Park Drive, 6404, (Ward 5) – Ardent Products Corporation, owner — appeal
heard on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-158) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Naples Avenue, 14509, (Ward 1) – City of Cleveland, owner and the Department of Community
Development — appeal postponed to 10/18/10 on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-152) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Naples Avenue, 14905, (Ward 1) – City of Cleveland, owner and the Department of Community
Development — appeal postponed to 10/18/10 on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-151) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Avenue, 15225, (Ward 1) – City of Cleveland, owner and the Department of Community
Development — appeal postponed to 10/18/10 on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-150) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shaker Boulevard, 10701, (Ward 6) – Springfield Investment Properties LLC, owner and
Larry Wolf, agent — appeal granted and adopted on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-153) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thackeray Avenue, 5905, (Ward 5) – City of Cleveland, owner and the Department of
Community Deveopment — appeal postponed to 10/18/10 on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-155) . . . . . . . . . .
Thackeray Avenue, 5911, (Ward 5) – City of Cleveland, owner and the Department of
Community Deveopment — appeal postponed to 10/18/10 on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-156) . . . . . . . . . .
Thackeray Avenue, 5917, (Ward 5) – City of Cleveland, owner and the Department of
Community Deveopment — appeal postponed to 10/18/10 on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-157) . . . . . . . . . .
West 134th Street, 4472, (Ward 18) – Valarie Burrell, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-147) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 3870, (Ward 14) – Frank J. Gallo, owner — appeal heard on 9/27/10
(Cal. 10-145) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th Street, 3207, (Ward 15) – Marc Wyman d.b.a. Aaromet Metal Recycling, owner —
appeal postponed to 11/01/10 on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-148). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2379, (Ward 3) – Nancy Corral Trust, owner — appeal to reheard on
10/18/10 on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-68) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2382, (Ward 3) – Nancy Corral Trust, owner — appeal to reheard on
10/18/10 on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-69) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2388, (Ward 3) – Nancy Corral Trust, owner — appeal to reheard on
10/18/10 on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-67) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 7th Street, 2387, (Ward 3) – Nancy Corral Trust, owner — appeal to reheard on
10/18/10 on 9/27/10 (Cal. 10-70) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Lorain Avenue, 17119, (Ward 19) – Patrick Campbell, owner — appeal to be heard on
10/12/10 (Cal. 10-170) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 4568, (Ward 19) – Cleveland Muslim Community Center, owner — appeal
to be heard on 10/12/10 (Cal. 10-168). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 4594, (Ward 19) – Cleveland Muslim Community Center, owner — appeal
to be heard on 10/12/10 (Cal. 10-166). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 4600, (Ward 19) – Cleveland Muslim Community Center, owner — appeal
to be heard on 10/12/10 (Cal. 10-167). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4431, (Ward 18) – Abrams Family Properties LLC, owner and Shelly
Materials, Inc., tenant — appeal to be heard on 10/12/10 (Cal. 10-169) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 3849, (Ward 3) – WHS Realty Services, Inc., owner and Happy Pizza
Holdings LLC, prospective tenant — appeal to be heard on 10/12/10 (Cal. 10-174) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1523
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1523
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1523
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1523
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524

Bonds
Amend Sect. 3 of Ord. No. 1384-09 — Flats East Bonds — Flats East Development LLC —
allocate ARRA Recovery Zone Bonds (O 1181-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530

Building and Housing Department
Professional service — deconstruction services (O 1055-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

City of Cleveland Bids
Debris disposal at landfills — Department of Public Utilities — per Ord. 805-10 — bid due
October 22, 2010 (advertised 9/29/2010 and 10/6/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gases, commercial — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due October 20,
2010 (advertised 9/29/2010 and 10/6/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Messenger services — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due October 14,
2010 (advertised 9/15/2010 and 9/22/2010 and 9/29/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safety equipment for OSHA/PERRP compliance — Department of Public
Utilities — per Ord. 870-10 — bid due October 22, 2010 (advertised 9/29/2010 and 10/6/2010)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1525
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1525
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1525
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1525

City Planning Commission
East Roadway (between Superior Ave. & Rockwell Ave.)- Jesse Owens Way — secondary and
honorary designation — Service Department (Ward 03) (O 1269-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Codified Ordinances
Amend Section 187.01 — Definitions of Terms (O 837-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1528
Enact new Sect(s)692B.01 — 692B.15 & 692B.99 — Sweepstakes Terminal Cafes (O 1284-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504

1535

The City Record

36

September 29, 2010

Community Development Department
Amend Contract No. 44522 — rental rehabilitation contract with NOAH Midtown (O 1290-10) . .
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 765-10 — CMSD After-School Education Program (Ward 01 NEF)
(O 1296-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 178th St., 4798 — PPN 143-20-034 — Land Reutilization Program — Theoderus Bennett
(Ward 01) (O 1046-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saranac Rd., 15225 — PPN 116-09-001/ 003 / 044/ 045 — Land Reutilization Program — Ishmael
Pettigrew (Ward 11) (O 1261-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Telfair Ave., 16320-22 — PPN 143-02-055 — Land Reutilization Program — Barry K. Dowdell
(Ward 01) (O 1074-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various parcels — Land Reutilization Program — St. John’s West Family Homes, L.P. (Ward
05) (O 1289-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509

Concession Agreements
Concession stands at Gordon and Brookside Park (O 887-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

Condolences Resolutions
DePiero, Gerald A. “Jerry” (R 1306-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
Mitchell, Jerry Thomas (R 1305-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
Stanton, Sgt. Martin (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Congratulations Resolutions
Benjamin Franklin Elementary School (R 1318-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bodziony, Ralph (R 1309-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boil, Kathy (R 1310-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chojnowski, Det. Joseph J., Badge #187 (R 1313-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old Brooklyn Community Elementary School (R 1316-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old Brooklyn Community School (R 1315-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Polichuk, Michael (R 1311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ross, Terry (R 1308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Staph, Jack A. (R 1314-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terez, Dennis G. (R 1312-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
William Cullen Bryant Elementary School — congratulations (R 1317-10)

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1503
1503
1503
1503
1503
1503
1503
1503
1503
1503
1503

Contracts
Amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 2156-05 — Neighborhood Retail Assistance Program (O 1190-10) . . . . .
Community Development — Amend Contract No. 44522 — rental rehabilitation contract with
NOAH Midtown (O 1290-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Computer hardware and software — Contract No. 68392 — Dell, Inc. (O 1180-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Concrete, ready mix (O 1182-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — MCPC for Core City and forgivable UDAG loan for headquarters at
1801 Superior Ave. (O 1189-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

County Auditor
Tax Levies, 2011 — accepting and certifying (R 1287-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508

City Council
Automated phone calls — agreement — Integrated Consulting & Management (O 1288-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509

Clerk of Council
Automated phone calls — agreement — Integrated Consulting & Management (O 1288-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509

Cuyahoga County
Parks, Recreation and Properties — lease portion of Willard Park to Cuy. Co. Board
of Developmental Disabilities for an urban garden (O 1202-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

Economic Development Department
Amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 2156-05 — Neighborhood Retail Assistance Program (O 1190-10) . . . . . .
Amend Title & Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1049-10 — Reflections Beauty Salon — agreement — building
renovation (Ward 9 NCF) (O 1262-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract — MCPC for Core City and forgivable UDAG loan for headquarters at 1801 Superior
Ave. (O 1189-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Create Special Energy Improvement District — Humphrey Park (R 1078-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TIF agreement — Dumham Square Land — multi-tenant office / technology center
(Euclid Ave., 6700) (O 1258-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1536

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1525
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531

September 29, 2010

The City Record

37

Finance Department
Amend Sect. 3 of Ord. No. 1384-09 — Flats East Bonds — Flats East Development LLC
allocate ARRA Recovery Zone Bonds (O 1181-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Computer hardware and software — Contract No. 68392 — Dell, Inc. (O 1180-10) . . . . .
Concrete, ready mix (O 1182-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moral Claims — authorize payments (O 1285-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax Levies, 2011 — accepting and certifying (R 1287-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

—
...
...
...
...
...

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1530
1530
1530
1507
1508

Flats District
Amend Sect. 3 of Ord. No. 1384-09 — Flats East Bonds — Flats East Development LLC —
allocate ARRA Recovery Zone Bonds (O 1181-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530

Grants
Byrne Justice Assistance Grant, 2010 — U.S. Department of Justice (O 885-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517
Port Security Grant; 2010 — Safety Department (O 813-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517
Urban Area Security Initiative Program; 2009 — State of Ohio EMS (O 886-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

Land Reutilization Program
East 178th St., 4798 — PPN 143-20-034 — Theoderus Bennett (Ward 01) (O 1046-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saranac Rd., 15225 — PPN 116-09-001/ 003 / 044/ 045 — Ishmael Pettigrew (Ward 11) (O 1261-10) .
Telfair Ave., 16320-22 — PPN 143-02-055 — Barry K. Dowdell (Ward 01) (O 1074-10). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various parcels — St. John’s West Family Homes, L.P. (Ward 05) (O 1289-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1529
1531
1530
1509

Leases
Parks, Recreation and Properties — lease portion of Willard Park to Cuy. Co. Board
of Developmental Disabilities for an urban garden (O 1202-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

Liquor Permits
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection to issuance (Ward 15) (R 1266-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 15) (R 1267-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 144th St., 3744 (1st fl.)- withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
465-10 (Ward 02) (R 1295-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th St., 1301 — transfer of ownership and location application — (Ward 03) (F 1298-10)
Euclid Ave., 1415 — new application (Ward 03) (F 1297-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grayton Rd., 4760 — transfer of ownership and location application (Ward 18) (F 1299-10). .
Memphis Ave., 4702 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 840-10
(Ward 13) (R 1264-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rowley Ave., 1104 (1st. fl. & bsmt.)- withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1059-10
(Ward 03) (R 1263-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 105th St., 3691 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 16) (R 1265-10) . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., 5611 — withdraw objection to transfer of stock — repeal Res. 838-10 (Ward
05) (R 1294-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1516
1503
1503
1503

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1526
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516

Loans
Economic Development — contract — MCPC for Core City and forgivable UDAG loan for
headquarters at 1801 Superior Ave. (O 1189-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

Moral Claims
Authorize payments — Finance Department (O 1285-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1507

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 765-10 — CMSD After-School Education Program
(Ward 01 NEF) (O 1296-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516

Oath of Office
Cutlip, Bruce — Lieutenant — Police Division (F 1300-10). . . .
Delgado, Jose — Sergeant — Police Division (F 1301-10) . . . . .
Hutchinson, Neil — Sergeant — Police Division (F 1302-10) . .
Lawrence, Michael — Sergeant — Police Division (F 1303-10)
Steel, Lisa — Sergeant — Police Division (F 1304-10) . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1503
1503
1503
1503
1503

Office of Equal Opportunity
Amend Section 187.01 — Definitions of Terms (O 837-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1528

1537

The City Record

38

September 29, 2010

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 865-09 — The First Tee of Cleveland & Participant Activity Board
Project (Ward 12 NCF) (O 1291-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1515
Concession Agreements for concession stands at Gordon and Brookside Park (O 887-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517
Lease portion of Willard Park to Cuy. Co. Board of Developmental Disabilities for an urban
garden (O 1202-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

Peddlers
Konstanino, Maria — peddling (Ward 15) (O 1292-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516

Personnel Department
Amend Sect. 47 of Ord. No. 947-08 — Salary and wage schedules (O 1286-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1507

Police Division
Cutlip, Bruce — Lieutenant (F 1300-10) . . . .
Delgado, Jose — Sergeant (F 1301-10) . . . . .
Hutchinson, Neil — Sergeant (F 1302-10) . . .
Lawrence, Michael — Sergeant (F 1303-10) .
Steel, Lisa — Sergeant (F 1304-10) . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1503
1503
1503
1503
1503

Professional Services
Automated phone calls — agreement — Integrated Consulting & Management (O 1288-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509
Building and Housing — deconstruction services (O 1055-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

Recognition Resolutions
“Cleveland, City of Peace and Non-Violence” initiative (R 1320-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504
Fugitive Safe Surrender Program (R 1319-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504

Resolution of Support
Economic Development — Create Special Energy Improvement District —
Humphrey Park (R 1078-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1525
Supporting State Senate Bill 273 (R 1293-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Economic Development — Create Special Energy Improvement District — Humphrey Park
(R 1078-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1525

Safety Department
Byrne Justice Assistance Grant, 2010 — Grants — U.S. Department of Justice (O 885-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517
Port Security Grant; 2010 — Grant (O 813-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517
Urban Area Security Initiative Program; 2009 — Grant — State of Ohio EMS (O 886-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

Salaries
Amend Sect. 47 of Ord. No. 947-08 — Salary and wage schedules (O 1286-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1507

Senate Bills
Supporting State Senate Bill 273 (R 1293-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516

Service Department
East Roadway (between Superior Ave. & Rockwell Ave.)- Jesse Owens Way — secondary
and honorary designation — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1269-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
Hispanic Roundtable — Lorain Ave., 2905 — banners — Sept. 17 to Oct. 16 — Hispanic
Convention 2010 (Ward 03) (O 1270-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Streets — Name
East Roadway (between Superior Ave. & Rockwell Ave.)- Jesse Owens Way — secondary
and honorary designation — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(Ward 03) (O 1269-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532

Taxes Levies
Tax Levies, 2011 — accepting and certifying (R 1287-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508

1538

September 29, 2010

The City Record

39

Taxes
Tax Levies, 2011 — accepting and certifying (R 1287-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508

Ward 01
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 765-10 — CMSD After-School Education Program (Ward 01 NEF)
(O 1296-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 178th St., 4798 — PPN 143-20-034 — Land Reutilization Program — Theoderus Bennett
(O 1046-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fugitive Safe Surrender Program — recognition (R 1319-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Telfair Ave., 16320-22 — PPN 143-02-055 — Land Reutilization Program — Barry K. Dowdell
(O 1074-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530

Ward 02
East 144th St., 3744 (1st fl.)- withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
465-10 — liquor permit (R 1295-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Ward 03
East 9th St., 1301 — transfer of ownership and location application — liquor permit
(F 1298-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East Roadway (between Superior Ave. & Rockwell Ave.)- Jesse Owens Way — secondary
and honorary designation — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(O 1269-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — contract — MCPC for Core City and forgivable UDAG loan for
headquarters at 1801 Superior Ave. (O 1189-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 1415 — new application — liquor permit (F 1297-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hispanic Roundtable — Lorain Ave., 2905 — banners — Sept. 17 to Oct. 16 — Hispanic
Convention 2010 — Service Department (O 1270-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rowley Ave., 1104 (1st. fl. & bsmt.)- withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1059-10 —
liquor permit (Ward 03) (R 1263-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Staph, Jack A. — congratulations (R 1314-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1526
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Ward 04
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Ward 05
Economic Development — TIF agreement — Dumham Square Land — multi-tenant office /
technology center (Euclid Ave., 6700) (O 1258-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various parcels — Land Reutilization Program — St. John’s West Family Homes, L.P. (O 1289-10).
Woodland Ave., 5611 — withdraw objection to transfer of stock — repeal Res. 838-10 — liquor
permit (R 1294-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1531
. . . . . . . . . . . 1503
. . . . . . . . . . . 1509
. . . . . . . . . . . 1516

Ward 06
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Ward 07
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Ward 08

“Cleveland, City of Peace and Non-Violence” initiative — recognition (R 1320-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1504
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Ward 09
Amend Title & Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1049-10 — Reflections Beauty Salon — agreement — building
renovation (Ward 9 NCF) (O 1262-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1532
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Ward 10
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

1539

The City Record

40

September 29, 2010

Ward 11
Saranac Rd., 15225 — PPN 116-09-001/ 003 / 044/ 045 — Land Reutilization Program — Ishmael
Pettigrew (O 1261-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Ward 12
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 865-09 — The First Tee of Cleveland & Participant Activity Board
Project (Ward 12 NCF) (O 1291-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mitchell, Jerry Thomas — condolence (R 1305-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ross, Terry — congratulations (R 1308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1515
1503
1503
1503

Ward 13
Benjamin Franklin Elementary School — congratulations (R 1318-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
DePiero, Gerald A. “Jerry” — condolence (R 1306-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Ave., 4702 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 840-10 —
liquor permit (R 1264-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old Brooklyn Community Elementary School — congratulations (R 1316-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old Brooklyn Community School — congratulations (R 1315-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
William Cullen Bryant Elementary School — congratulations (R 1317-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1527
1503
1503
1503
1503

Ward 14
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Ward 15
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1266-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1267-10)
Konstanino, Maria — peddling (O 1292-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1527
1527
1516
1503

Ward 16
Ross, Terry — congratulations (R 1308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
West 105th St., 3691 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1265-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527

Ward 17
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Ward 18
Bodziony, Ralph — congratulations (R 1309-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boil, Kathy — congratulations (R 1310-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chojnowski, Det. Joseph J., Badge #187 — congratulations (R 1313-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grayton Rd., 4760 — transfer of ownership and location application — liquor permit
(F 1299-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Polichuk, Michael — congratulations (R 1311-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ross, Terry — congratulations (R 1308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terez, Dennis G. — congratulations (R 1312-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1503
1503
1503
1503
1503

Ward 19
Stanton, Sgt. Martin — condolence (R 1307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1503

Zoning
Clark Field — Change the Use District — Open Space and Recreation District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (O 734-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holmden Ave., (south)- Change the Use District — Two Family Residential District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 730-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kenilworth Ave., Starkweather Ave., West 11th St., and W. 14th St. — Change the Use
District — Open Space and Recreation District — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(O 733-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professor St. & Starkweather Ave. — Change the Use District — Local Retail Business — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 732-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rowley Ave. & W. 11th St. — Change the Use District — Local Retail Business — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (O 1076-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue Design Review District — establish (O.1077-10

1540

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524

