The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

March the Twenty-Fourth, Two Thousand and Ten

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name
Terrell H. Pruitt
Zachary Reed
Joe Cimperman
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Jeffrey D. Johnson
Kevin Conwell
Eugene R. Miller
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Kevin J. Kelley
Brian J. Cummins
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
17
24
26
26
27
27
27
27
28
28
28

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman..............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell .................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow ..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell...................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley ..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone......................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
________________, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – _________, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole D.West, Interim Director, Room
121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – John D. Mahone, Interim Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia
Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F. Denk,
Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P.
O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela Caldwell,
Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council Member
____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia
Nolan, David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair; Laura
M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey, Allan
Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12B
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
12A
Judge Michelle D. Earley
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
12C
Judge Michael John Ryan
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 2010

Vol. 97

No. 5024

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2010
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Cimperman,
Services
Committee:
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Conwell,
Cummins,
Dow,
Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 22, 2010
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney and Westbrook.
Also present were Mayor Frank J.
Jackson; Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer; Chris Warren, Chief of
Regional Development; Monyka S.
Price, Chief of Education; Maureen
Harper, Chief of Communications;
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of
Public Affairs; Andrea V. Taylor,
Press Secretary; Andrew Watterson,
Chief of Sustainability; and Directors Dumas, Withers, Wasik, Carroll,
Flask,
Cox,
Rush,
Rybka,
Nichols, Fumich, Interim Directors
Nycole D. West and John D. Mahone,
and Acting Director Munday Workman and Theresa Stevenson, Legislative Affairs.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson,
K.
Johnson,
Kelley,
Mitchell.

Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76
prayer was offered by Pastor Iran
Whitthorn
of
Zion
International
Church, located at 809 East 152nd
Street, located in Ward 10. Pledge of
Allegiance.

367

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Dona Brady, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed with and the Clerk was
instructed to correct the journal of
the March 8, 2010, meeting of the
Council (City Record Volume 97,
Page 279), to reflect the correct
printing of Ordinance No. 302-10 as
it appears in the First Reading
Emergency
Ordinances
Referred
portion by striking Ordinance No.
302-10 in its entirety and inserting
the following:
Ord. No. 302-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise an option to renew Contract
No. 67820 with RW Armstrong, Inc.
to provide general engineering design services, for the Department of
Port Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 186-07, passed March
12, 2007, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. 67820 with
RW Armstrong, Inc. to provide general engineering design services for
the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 186-07 requires further legislation before exercising the option to renew on this
contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
option to renew Contract No. 67820 for
an additional year with RW Armstrong, Inc. for general engineering
design services for the Department of
Port Control. This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required by Ordinance No. 18607 to exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Without
objection,
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member
Kevin J. Kelly.

The City Record

4
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 366-10.
From Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — notification that
CMHA will be the general partner
of a residential rental development,
located at Lee Road and Miles Avenue at East 167th Street (Beehive
Elderly Apartments) in Ward 1,
utilizing
Ohio
Housing
Finance
Agency (OHFA) funding. Received.
File No. 371-10.
From Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — notification that
CMHA will be the general partner
of a residential rental development,
located at 11722 Miles Avenue (Miles
Pointe) in Ward 2, utilizing Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (OHFA)
funding. Received.
File No. 372-10.
From Burton, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. — notification that Burton, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
and PIRHL Developers, LLC codevelopers of a single-family residential development, located at scattered sites in the St. John’s Village
West neighborhood of the Villages
of Central, in Ward 5, utilizing Ohio
Housing Finance Agency (OHFA)
funding. Received.
File No. 385-10.
From Cleveland Housing Network
— notification that Cleveland Housing Network will be the general
partner of a residential rental development, (Cleveland Green Homes
III), located in Wards 4, 6, 7, 9, and
12, utilizing Ohio Housing Finance
Agency (OHFA) funding. Received.
File No. 386-10.
From Cleveland Housing Network
— notification that Cleveland Housing Network will be the general
partner of a residential rental development, (Emerald Alliance VII)
at 9431 Lorain Avenue, located in
Ward 16, utilizing Ohio Housing
Finance Agency (OHFA) funding.
Received.
File No. 387-10.
From Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation,
Intergenerational Housing Initiative — notification that Fairfax Grandparent
Housing, Inc. will be the general
partner of a residential rental development, (Fairfax intergenerational Housing Initiative) in Ward 6,
utilizing
Ohio
Housing
Finance
Agency (OHFA) funding. Received.
File No. 388-10.
From Village Green Elderly II,
LLC — notification that NRP Village Green Elderly, II LLC will be
the managing member of a residential rental development, (Village
Green Elderly II) at 18221 Euclid
Avenue, located in Ward 10, utilizing Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(OHFA) funding. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 389-10.
Re #2714240 — C2, C2X Stock
Application — 15315 Bartlett, Inc.,
dba Johnsons Deli, 15315 Bartlett
Avenue. (Ward 1). Received.

File No. 390-10.
Re #5870816 — D5, D6 — Stock
Application
—
Metropolis
Night
Club, Inc., 2325 Elm Street. (Ward
3). Received.
File No. 391-10.
Re #22293300 — D5, D6 — Transfer of Location Application — Downtown Croton, Inc., dba Downtown
Croton, 3403 Croton Avenue. (Ward
5). Received.
File No. 392-10.
Re #0597591 — C2, C2X, D6 —
Transfer of Ownership Application
— Bellaire Gas USA, LLC, dba Gas
USA, 3934 West 117th Street. (Ward
17). Received.
File No. 393-10.
Re #69946840 — C2, C2X Stock
Application — Pit Stop Deli, Inc.,
dba River Market, 19609 Puritas
Road, #103. (Ward 19). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 394-10 — Judge Frank D.
Celebreeze.
Res. No. 395-10—Doris Marie Newsome.
Res. No. 396-10—Lynn H. Chick.
Res. No. 397-10 — Nellie Mae
Thomas.
Res. No. 398-10—Robert Nagle.
Res. No. 399-10—Ida Fields.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 400-10—Bonnie McNally.
Res. No. 401-10—John Hayes.
Res. No. 402-10 — Shannon Corcoran.
Res. No. 403-10 — Father Tom
Johns.
Res. No. 404-10 — Mildred Olivia
Martin.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 355-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. 67096 with Brenda Y.
Terrell, Ph.D. & Associates to provide business relations consulting
services for the Department of Port
Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1846-06, passed December 11, 2006, the Director of Port
Control entered into Contract No.
67096 with Brenda Y. Terrell, Ph.D.
& Associates to provide business
relations consulting services for the
Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1846-06 requires further legislation before exercising the options to renew this
contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

368

March 24, 2010
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the second option to renew Contract No. 67096 for an additional
year at a cost not to exceed $75,000,
with Brenda Y. Terrell, Ph.D. &
Associates to provide business relations consulting services for the
Department of Port Control. This
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 1846-06 to exercise
this option. Notwithstanding Ordinance No. 1846-06, no further options
to renew will be exercised for this
contract after this ordinance has
passed. Request No. RQS 3001 RL
2010-42.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Aviation
and Transportation, Finance, Law;
Committees on Port Control, Finance.
Ord. No. 356-10.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance designating St. John Nepomucene Church,
School, Rectory, and Convent as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate St. John Nepomucene Church, School, Rectory, and
Convent as a landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on January 14, 2010 to discuss
the proposed designation of St. John
Nepomucene Church, School, Rectory, and Convent as a landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of St. John
Nepomucene Church, School, Rectory, and Convent as a landmark and
has set forth certain findings of fact
constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That St. John Nepomucene Church, School, Rectory, and
Convent, whose street addresses in
the City of Cleveland are 3777-3789
Independence Road, S. E., 4914 Fleet
Avenue, S. E., and 3760 East 50th
Street, Cuyahoga County Auditor’s
Permanent Parcel Numbers are 13209-002, 132-09-003, 132-09-004, 132-09005, 132-09-052, 132-09-053, and 132-09079 and is also known as the following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all of

March 24, 2010
Sublot numbers 2 through 16 both
inclusive in the Raus and Jirousek
Washington Park Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
number 312 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 27, Page 16 of
Cuyahoga County map records.
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 357-10.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Sisters of Charity Foundation
and Mount Sinai Health Care Foundation for the 2010 Cleveland Minority Health Grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $35,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Sisters of Charity Foundation and Mount Sinai Health Care
Foundation; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 357-10-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Public Health, Finance,
Law; Committees on Health and
Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 358-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the acquisition of certain easement interests from the Denison
Elderly LLC Project for a walkway
from Denison Avenue into the Reed
Playfield located at West 15th Street
and Denison Avenue, for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to acquire
certain easement rights from the
Denison Elderly LLC Project for a
walkway from Denison Avenue into
the Reed Playfield located at West
15th Street and Denison Avenue, in
and to the premises more particularly described as follows:
Sidewalk Easement
Denison Elderly
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Parcel B in Fern Court Townhomes
Lot Split as recorded in Volume 335
of Maps, Page 73 of Cuyahoga County Records, and further bounded and
described as follows: Beginning at a
point on the northerly line of Denison Avenue S.W., 56 feet wide, at
the southwesterly corner of Sublot
No. 17 in the H.E. Foster Re-Subdivision being part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 74 as recorded in Volume 18, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence along
the northerly line of Denison Avenue S.W, South 79° - 12' - 22" West,
a distance of 8.00 feet to an angle
point
therein;
thence
continuing
along the northerly line of Denison
Avenue S.W., South 87° - 29' - 30"
West, a distance of 8.51 feet to the
PRINCIPAL
PLACE
OF
BEGINNING;
Course 1: thence continuing along
the northerly line of Denison Avenue S.W., South 87° - 29' - 30" West,
a distance of 10.00 feet to a point;
Course 2: thence North 04° - 06 36" West, a distance of 114.73 feet
to a point of curvature therein;
Course 3: thence northeasterly, a
distance of 31.32 feet along the arc
of a curve deflecting to the right
having a radius of 37.50 feet and a
chord which bears North 19° - 49' 00" East, a distance of 30.42 feet to
a point of reverse curvature;
Course 4: thence northeasterly, a
distance of 45.09 feet along the arc
of a curve deflecting to the left hav-

369

5
ing a radius of 47.50 feet and a
chord which bears North 16° - 32' 47" East, a distance of 43.42 feet to
a point of compound curvature;
Course 5: thence northwesterly, a
distance of 46.24 feet along the arc
of a curve deflecting to the left having a radius of 27.50 feet and a
chord which bears North 58° - 49' 14" West, a distance of 40.98 feet to
a westerly line of Parcel B in Fern
Court Townhomes Lot Split as aforementioned;
Course 6: thence along a westerly
line of Parcel B, North 10° - 47' - 38"
West, a distance of 41.22 feet to a
northerly line of Parcel B;
Course 7: thence along a northerly line of Parcel B, North 79° - 12'
- 22" East, a distance of 42.38 feet
to a point of non-tangent curvature;
Course 8: thence southeasterly, a
distance of 55.92 feet along the arc
of a curve deflecting to the left having a radius of 92.50 feet and a
chord which bears South 07° - 06' 48" East, a distance of 55.07 feet to
a point of reverse curvature;
Course 9: thence southwesterly, a
distance of 68.42 feet along the arc
of a curve deflecting to the right
having a radius of 57.50 feet and a
chord which bears South 09° - 39' 22" West, a distance of 64.45 feet to
a point of reverse curvature;
Course 10: thence southwesterly, a
distance of 22.97 feet along the arc
of a curve deflecting to the left having a radius of 27.50 feet and a
chord which bears South 19° - 49' 00" West, a distance of 22.31 feet to
a point of tangency;
Course 11: thence South 04° - 06'
- 36" East, a distance of 115.01 feet
to the principal place of beginning
and containing 0.0887 acre of land
according to a survey by Matthew
C. Neff, Ohio Professional Surveyor
#7315, of the M Neff Design Group
dated May 13, 2009, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
NOTE: Bearings shown hereon are
to an assumed meridian and are
used to denote angles only.
Section 2. That the cost of the
acquisition of the easement rights
shall be One Dollar and other valuable consideration which are determined to be fair market value or
the amount of the jury verdict in
the event eminent domain is needed to acquire the easement interests in and to the premises. The
purchase
price,
appraisal,
title,
escrow, and all other costs incurred
in acquiring the easement interests
shall be paid from the fund or
funds deemed appropriate by the
Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to execute all documents
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
necessary to acquire certain rights
in and to the premises.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record

6
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 359-10.
By Council Members Cummins, K.
Johnson, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter a Concession Agreement with the Roberto Clemente League for the operation of a concession stand at Roberto Clemente Park, for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, for a period of one year, with
four one-year options to renew, exercisable by the Director.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any section
of
the
Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized to enter a Concession Agreement with the Roberto Clemente League for the operation of the concession stand at
Roberto Clemente Park for a period of one year, with four one-year
options to renew, exercisable by
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.

Section 2. That the Concession
Agreement shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Parks, Properties
and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 360-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance No.
507-09, passed April 20, 2009, relating
to authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into
contract with Alcoa to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the refurbishment
of equipment located at their facility located at 1609 Harvard Avenue,
and
authorizing
a
development
agreement with the Village of Cuyahoga Heights and the City of Independence.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

March 24, 2010
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 2 and 3 of
Ordinance No. 507-09, passed April
20, 2009, are amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 507-09-B made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation, and are
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the costs of the
loan shall not exceed Five Hundred
and Fifty Thousand Dollars ($550,000),
and shall be paid from Fund No. 17
SF 008, which funds are appropriated for this purpose, Request Nos.
123988
and
RQS
9501
CONVRL
123988.
Section 2. That existing Sections 2
and 3 of Ordinance No. 507-09, passed
April 20, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED

Ord. No. 368-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located on W. 65th Street between Fir
Avenue and Madison Avenue and lands south of Madison along the railroad ending at Aspen Ct. to Two Family
Residential, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change No. 2298 Sheet No. 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline West 65th Street at its intersection with the centerline of Fir Avenue;
Thence Easterly along said centerline of Fir Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 64th Place;
Thence Southerly along the said centerline of West 64th Place to the centerline of Lillian Court;
Thence Southeasterly and Easterly along the said centerline of Lillian Court to its intersection with the Northerly
prolongation of the Westerly line of Sublot No. 213 in James M. Hoyt’s Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot Nos. 32 and 33 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 2, Page 49 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 213 and its Southerly prolongation to the centerline of
Madison Avenue;
Thence Easterly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of
the Westerly line of Sublot No. 45 in said James M. Hoyt’s Subdivision;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 45, its Northerly prolongation and its Southerly
prolongation to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the centerline of Beverly Court;
Thence Easterly along said centerline of Beverly Court and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with
the Northwesterly prolongation of the Southwesterly line of land conveyed to Raul Torres by deed recorded in
Auditor’s File Number 2003060201896 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga
County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-27-073;
Thence Southeasterly along said the Southwesterly line of land conveyed to Raul Torres and its Northwesterly
prolongation, to a Southerly corner thereof;
Thence Northeasterly along a Southeasterly line of said land conveyed to Raul Torres to a Southwesterly rightof-way of Lawn Avenue;

370

March 24, 2010

The City Record

7

Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly right-of-way of Lawn Avenue to the centerline of said Lawn
Avenue;
Thence Northeasterly along said centerline of Lawn Avenue to the Northwesterly prolongation of the Southwesterly line of Sublot No. 31 in said James M. Hoyt’s Subdivision;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line of Sublot No. 31 and the Northwesterly prolongation thereof to a Northeasterly right-of-way as conveyed to Norfolk and Western by merger, said parcel also being known
as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-27-069;
Thence Southeasterly along said Norfolk and Western right-of-way to a Southwesterly terminus of Aspen
Court;
Thence Southeasterly along the Southwesterly terminus of Aspen Court to the centerline of Aspen Court;
Thence Southwesterly along the centerline of Aspen Court, now vacated, and across said Norfolk and Western
right-of-way and along a centerline of said Aspen Court to the Southeasterly prolongation of the Northeasterly
line of Parcel “A” in the Map of Lot Consolidation of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot 33 as shown on
the plat recorded in Volume 354, Page 46 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northwesterly along said Northeasterly line of Parcel “A”, its Southeasterly prolongation, its Northwesterly prolongation, the Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 179 in said James M. Hoyt’s Subdivision, its Southeasterly prolongation and its Northwesterly prolongation to the Northerly right-of-way of Corona Court, part now
vacated;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northerly right-of-way of Corona Court, part now vacated, to the Southerly
prolongation of an Easterly line of Lot 2 in the Lot Split Survey of St. Colman Church of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 32 and 33 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 327, Page 54 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Lot 2 in the Lot Split Survey of St. Colman Church, the Southerly
prolongation and the Northerly prolongation thereof to the centerline of said Madison Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to the centerline of West 65th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of said West 65th Street to the centerline of Pear Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Pear Avenue to its intersection with the Southerly prologation of an
Easterly right-of-way as conveyed to Norfolk and Western by merger, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga
County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-25-003;
Thence Northerly along said Norfolk and Western Easterly right-of-way to a Northeasterly corner thereof;
Thence Westerly along said Norfolk and Western Northerly right-of-way to the Southerly prolongation of the
Easterly line of Sublot No. 300 in said Elwell and Marvin’s Subdivision;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 300, its Southerly prolongation and its Northerly prolongation to the centerline of Wakefield Avenue;
Thence Easterly along the said centerline of Wakefield Avenue to its intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the Easterly line of land conveyed to Columbus C. Phipps by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number
200610180888 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 002-26-024;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of said land conveyed to Columbus C. Phipps and Southerly prolongation thereof to the Northeasterly corner thereof;
Thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said land conveyed to Columbus C. Phipps and the Northerly line
of land conveyed to RoAnn J. Fox by deed recorded in Vol. 84-4122, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records,
said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-26-025, to the Easterly line of
Sublot No. 161 in the Gordan Avenue Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 32 as shown on
the plat recorded in Volume 21, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 161 and the Easterly line of Sublot No. 154 in said Gordan Avenue Allotment to the Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to Donald W. Cordell and Rhonda s. Cordell
by deed recorded in Volume 94-01446, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known
as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-26-087;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of said land conveyed to Donald W. Cordell and Rhonda s. Cordell
and the Southerly line of said land conveyed to Keith A. Chervenak and continuing along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 65th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of W. 65th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of
the northerly line of Sublot Number 272 in James M. Hoyt’s Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 2,
Page 49 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of said northerly line of Sublot Number 272 to its intersection with the westerly line of land conveyed to The Cleveland Housing Network by deed dated December 21, 2001
and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200112210715, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 002-29-070;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Fir Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Fir Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 65th Street
and the principal place of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Two Family Residential District, a ‘B’ Area District and a
‘1’ Height District.

371

The City Record

8

March 24, 2010

Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2298, Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

372

March 24, 2010
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 369-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution relating
to the Downtown Cleveland Improvement
District
as
a
special
improvement district within the city;
declaring it necessary to provide for
additional security for the Downtown
Cleveland Improvement District, cleaning and maintenance of the public
rights-of-way within the Downtown
Cleveland Improvement District, and
collective economic development and
marketing of the Downtown Cleveland Improvement District; and providing for the assessment of the cost
and expense of such work upon benefited property in the Downtown
Cleveland Improvement District and
declaring an emergency.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Resolution No.
1386-05, adopted August 3, 2005,
established the Downtown Cleveland Improvement District consisting generally of that portion of the
City which is bounded on the North
by the Conrail lines and Front
Avenue; on the South by Eagle
Avenue and Webster Avenue; on the
East by East 18th Street; and on the
West by West 10th Street and the
Cuyahoga River, as more particularly described in the Articles of
Incorporation on file with the Clerk
of Council in that resolution and collective economic development and
marketing of the Downtown Cleveland Improvement District.
Section 2. That Resolution No. 27210, adopted March 8, 2010, accepted
the Petition of the property owners
in the Downtown Cleveland Improvement District and a comprehensive services plan (the “Plan”)
for the continuation of operations of
the Downtown Cleveland Improvement District.
Section 3. That it is determined
and declared necessary and conducive to the public health, convenience and welfare of the City of
Cleveland
to
provide
additional
security for the Downtown Cleveland Improvement District, additional cleaning and maintenance of the
public
rights-of-way
within
the
Downtown Cleveland Improvement
District
and
collective
economic
development and marketing of the
Downtown Cleveland Improvement
District for a five-year period commencing after passage of the ordinance to proceed in this matter.
Section 4. That it is determined
that the property contained within
the Downtown Cleveland Improvement District will be specially benefited by the above described public
services and shall be assessed to
pay for the cost of the services, calculated in proportion to the benefits
that may result from the services.
Section 5. That the Plan on file in
File No. 272-10-A is approved at an
estimated cost of $18,688,005.81.
Section 6. That the entire cost of
the Plan in the Downtown Cleveland
Improvement District be specially

The City Record
assessed in proportion to the benefits that may result from the services within the Cleveland Downtown Improvement District. The cost
of the Plan shall include the cost of
printing, serving, and publishing
notices, resolutions, and ordinances,
the costs incurred in connection
with the preparation, levy, and collection of the special assessments,
expenses of legal services, the cost
of all labor and materials and all
other necessary expenditures allowed by law.
Section 7. That the assessments to
be levied shall be paid when levied
in five annual installments. The
first through fifth annual installments shall be payable in cash on
or before January 15 in each of the
years 2011 through 2015. All assessments and installments which have
not been paid shall be certified by
the Clerk of Council to the County
Auditor on or before September 1 of
each year, to be placed by him on
the tax duplicate and collected the
same as other taxes, as provided by
law.
Section 8. That no notes or bonds
of the City of Cleveland shall be
issued in anticipation of the collection of the special assessments.
Section 9. That the Commissioner
of Assessments and Licenses is
authorized to prepare and file in the
Office of the Clerk of Council an
estimated assessment under the provisions of this resolution showing
the
amount
of
the
assessment
against each lot or parcel of land to
be assessed. Such estimated assessment shall be based on the estimated cost of the Plan which is now on
file in the Office of the Clerk of
Council. When the estimated special
assessments have been filed, the
Clerk of Council shall cause notice
of the adoption of this Resolution
and the filing of the estimated special assessments to be served in the
manner provided by law on the owners of all lots and parcels to be
assessed.
Section 10. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 361-10.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 912-09, passed July 1, 2009; to
enact new Section 6; and to renumber existing Sections 6 and 7 to new
Sections 7 and 8, relating to authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to accept a grant from the United
States
Department
of
Homeland
Security for the Assistance to Firefighters
Grant,
and
authorizing
related contracts.

373

9
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 912-09,
passed July 1, 2009, are amended to
read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of
Homeland Security for the 2008
Assistance to Firefighters Grant;
authorizing the purchase by one or
more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, services,
and training needed; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts without competitive
bidding with Masimo Corporation
for the purchase of Rad-57 Pulse COOximeters to implement the grant,
for the Department of Public Safety.
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $306,581, from United
States
Department
of
Homeland
Security to conduct the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant; that the
Director of Public Safety is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the application
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 91209, passed July 1, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 91209, passed July 1, 2009, is supplemented by adding new Section 6 to
read as follows:
Section 6. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Masimo Corporation. Therefore the
Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one or more written
contracts with Masimo Corporation
on the basis of its proposal dated
February 23, 2010, in the total sum
of $94,520, for not to exceed twentyseven (27) Rad-57 Pulse CO-Oximeters and accessories, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for the Department of Public Safety. The contract
or contracts authorized shall be paid
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the grant accepted under
this ordinance and from the cash
match.
Section 4. That existing Sections 6
and 7 of Ordinance No. 912-09, passed
July 1, 2009 are renumbered to new
“Section 7” and “Section 8”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

10
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 362-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Solar Systems Networking Inc., for professional services necessary to advise
and assist in the management and
implementation of certain technology projects for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council (“Clerk”) is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Solar Systems Networking Inc. (“Consultant”)
for the professional services necessary to advise and assist in the management
and
implementation
of
technology projects, including maintenance of the functionality of the
current network environment, user
support, assistance in the design
and development of future network
services and such other projects as
may be determined by the Clerk.
The cost of all services under this
agreement shall not exceed $50,000
and shall be paid for from fund 11006.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 367-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 3, 5, 7, 19 and
20 of Ordinance No. 319-09, passed
March 16, 2009, as amended; and to
supplement the ordinance by adding
new Sections 9a., 9b., 12b., 12c., 12d.,
and 12e. relating to applying to the
Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency for various infrastructure projects and authorizing other
contractual authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 3, 5, 7, 19, and 20 of Ordinance
No. 319-09, passed March 16, 2009, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1159-09,
passed August 5, 2009 and Ordinance

The City Record
No. 1786-09, passed December 7, 2009,
are amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
apply to the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency for various infrastructure projects throughout the City and accepting eligible
funding; authorizing the director to
enter into one or more local project
agreements with the State of Ohio
to fund and construct any portion of
the improvements; giving consent of
the City of Cleveland to the State of
Ohio to make the improvements;
authorizing the director to enter
into any agreements relative thereto; authorizing the director to employ one or more professional consultants to implement the improvements; determining the method of
making the public improvement of
constructing the infrastructure improvements; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvements;
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire
for right-of-way purposes such real
property and easements as are necessary to make the improvements;
authorizing contracts with railroads
and the Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority; to cause payment
to the State of Ohio, or other entities, of the City’s share of the cost
of the improvements; and authorizing the director to apply for and
accept gifts or grants from any public or private entity for this purpose.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service, when appropriate, is
authorized to enter into one or
more Local Project Administration
(“LPA”) agreements with the Ohio
Department of Transportation to
fund and construct any portion of
the public improvements contained
in this ordinance.
Section 5. That the City proposes
to cooperate with the State of Ohio
in the cost of the above described
improvements, including the Rehabilitation of the Willow Lift Bridge
and the Rehabilitation of the Center
Street Swing Bridge, by assuming
and contributing the entire cost and
expense of the improvements less
the amount of Federal highway
funds or other funds set aside by
the ODOT Director and NOACA for
the financing of one or more of
these improvements from funds allocated
by
any
state
or
federal
agency. The City agrees to assume
and contribute 100% of the cost of
any items included in the construction contract at the request of the
City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
for the improvements. The City
agrees to assume and contribute
funds for all necessary change
orders and cost overruns.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized, on
behalf of the City of Cleveland, to
enter into any agreements as are
necessary to carry out the intent
and
purpose
of
this
ordinance.
Specifically, the Director of Public
Service is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the
planning and construction of the
improvements described in Section 1,
including the Rehabilitation of the

374

March 24, 2010
Willow Lift Bridge and the Rehabilitation of the Center Street Swing
Bridge, which agreements shall contain terms and conditions that the
Director of Law determines shall
best protect the public interest. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
certify to each of these agreements
with the State an amount equal to
six percent of the accepted bid
amount to be used by the State for
necessary change orders and cost
overruns.
Section 19. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Ohio Department of Transportation
to accept the federal funds necessary for contracts authorized in this
ordinance.
Section 20. That the cost of any
contract or contracts or payments
authorized in this ordinance shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 380, 20
SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500, 20 SF
506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528,
any state or federal funding received under this ordinance, from
any state or federal funding received under Ordinance No. 463-09,
passed April 20, 2009, from the fund
or funds to which are credited any
grant funds or gifts received under
this ordinance, and from any other
funds that are appropriated for this
purpose. (RL 188410)
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 3, 5, 7, 19, and 20 of
Ordinance No. 319-09, passed March
16, 2009, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1159-09, passed August 5, 2009
and Ordinance No. 1786-09, passed
December 7, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 31909, passed March 16, 2009, as amended by Ordinance No. 1159-09, passed
August 5, 2009 and Ordinance No.
1786-09, passed December 7, 2009, is
supplemented by adding new Sections 9a., 9b., 12b., 12c., 12d., and 12e.
to read as follows:
Section 9a. That this Council requests the State to proceed with any
improvements for which the City
and the State have entered into an
agreement under Section 7, including the Rehabilitation of the Willow
Lift Bridge and the Rehabilitation
of the Center Swing Lift Bridge.
Section 9b. That the Clerk of
Council is authorized and directed
to transmit to the State three (3)
certified copies of this ordinance
immediately on its taking effect, as
well as three (3) certified copies of
Ordinance No. 319-09, passed March
16, 2009, and three (3) certified
copies each of amending Ordinance
No. 1159-09, passed August 5, 2009
and Ordinance No. 1786-09, passed
December 7, 2009, and those shall
become the basis for proceeding
with the improvements for which
City and the State have entered
into an agreement under Section 7,
including the Rehabilitation of the
Willow Lift Bridge and the Rehabilitation
of
the
Center
Street
Swing Bridge.
Section 12b. That, under Section
167 of the Charter of the City of
Cleveland, this Council determines
to make the public improvement of
constructing the infrastructure improvements for the projects described in Section 1 of this ordinance, for the Department of Public

March 24, 2010
Service, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 12c. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis.
Section 12d. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
and pay for permits, licenses, or
other authorizations required by any
regulatory agency or public authority to permit performance of the
work authorized by this ordinance.
Section 12e. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to certify to
each of the contracts authorized in
Section 12c. an amount, in addition
to the accepted bid amount, equal to
six percent of the accepted bid
amount as a contingency allowance
to fund the Engineering and Construction Force Account. No ARRA
funds may be used for this portion
of the contract.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 370-10.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Westbrook, Brady and Keane.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the Greater
Cleveland Regional Transportation
Authority for a Pilot Neighborhood
Transportation Program through the
use of Ward(s) 16, 17, 18, and 19
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
the
Department
of
Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the Greater
Cleveland Regional Transportation
Authority for a Pilot Neighborhood
Transportation Program for the
public purpose of providing local
transportation assistance to city of
Cleveland residents, including but
not limited to the elderly, disabled

The City Record
and residents with limited access
to private transportation through
the use of Ward(s) 16, 17, 18, and
19 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve the
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 373-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1676-09
passed November 16, 2009, relating
to an agreement with NetX Internet
LLC.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1676-09 passed November
16, 2009 is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to enter
into an Agreement with NetX Internet LLC to provide wireless internet service to Cleveland City Council, including installation, equipment,
management,
maintenance
and repair for a period of three
years, beginning on January 1,
2010. The cost of the agreement
shall be $799.00 per month and
shall be paid from fund number
632000-01-010100 and 11-006.
Section 2. That the existing Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1676-09
passed November 16, 2009 is hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

375

11
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 363-10.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Sweeney, Zone, Cimperman, Westbrook, Cummins, Brady,
Brancatelli, Cleveland, Conwell, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt
and Reed.
An emergency resolution urging
the City of Cleveland, other area
municipalities, public and private
businesses and individuals to support “Earth Hour 2010” by turning
off their lights for one hour, from
8:30 pm until 9:30 pm on Saturday
March 27, 2010.
Whereas, on March 27, 2010, the
world
will
once
again
observe
“Earth Hour” when hundreds of millions of people, organizations, corporations and governments around
the world will come together to
make a bold statement about their
concern for climate change by turning off their lights for one hour
between the 8:30pm and 9:30 pm; and
Whereas, in the United States, participants will turn off their lights,
sending a clear message that we
want to “turn out the lights” on
dirty air, dangerous dependency on
foreign
oil
and
costly
climate
change
impacts,
and
make
the
switch to cleaner air, a strong economic future and a more secure
nation; and
Whereas, since its inception three
years ago, Earth Hour has become
a global phenomenon; and
Whereas, nearly one billion people
turned out for Earth Hour 2009,
involving 4,100 cities in 87 countries
on seven continents; and
Whereas, last year, 80 million
Americans and 318 U.S. cities officially voted for action with their
light switch; and
Whereas, last year, landmarks
from around the world went dark
for
Earth
Hour,
including:
the
Empire State Building; the Brooklyn
Bridge;
Broadway
Theater
Marquees; the Las Vegas Strip; United
Nations Headquarters; the Golden
Gate Bridge; Seattle’s Space Needle;
Church of Latter-Day Saints Temple;
the Gateway Arch in St Louis; the
Great Pyramids of Giza; the Acropolis and Parthenon in Athens; Christ
the Redeemer Statue in Rio de
Janeiro; St. Peter’s Basilica in Vatican City; Big Ben and Houses of
Parliament
in
London;
Elysee
Palace and Eiffel Tower in Paris;
Beijing’s Bird Nest and Water Cube;
Symphony of Lights in Hong Kong;
and Sydney’s Opera House; and
Whereas, the State of Ohio is an
official Earth Hour 2010 state and
the Governor’s residence will turn
off its lights for Earth Hour; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
and all Northeast Ohio citizens
should pledge to participate in this
year’s Earth Hour; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the City of Cleveland, other area

12
municipalities, public and private
businesses and individuals to support “Earth Hour 2010” by turning
off their lights for one hour, from
8:30 pm until 9:30 pm on Saturday
March 27, 2010.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
Joe Roman, President and Chief
Executive Office Cleveland Partnership, Joseph Marinucci, President &
CEO of Downtown Cleveland Alliance, and Cuyahoga County Commissioners Tim Hagen, Peter Lawson Jones, and Jimmy Dimora.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 364-10.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Sweeney and Polensek.
An emergency resolution declaring the week of April 11, 2010 as the
Holocaust Days of Remembrance in
the City of Cleveland, including the
Day of Remembrance known as
Yom Hashoah on April 11th.
Whereas, the Holocaust was the
state-sponsored, systematic persecution and annihilation of approximately six million European Jewry
by Nazi Germany and its collaborators between 1933 and 1945; and
Whereas, Gypsies, the handicapped, and Poles were also targeted
for destruction or decimation for
racial, ethnic, or national reasons;
and
Whereas, lesbians, gays, and bisexual and transgender individuals,
Jehovah’s Witnesses, Soviet prisoners of war and political dissidents,
also suffered grievous oppression
and death under Nazi tyranny; and
Whereas, the history of the Holocaust
offers
an
opportunity
to
reflect on the moral responsibilities
of individuals, societies, and governments; and
Whereas, the people of the City of
Cleveland should always remember
the terrible events of the Holocaust
and remain vigilant against hatred,
persecution, and tyranny; and
Whereas, the people of the City of
Cleveland should actively rededicate
ourselves to the principles of individual freedom in a just society; and
Whereas, under an Act of Congress (Public Law 96-388, October 7,
1980) the United States Holocaust
Memorial Council designates the
Day of Remembrance of the Victims
of the Holocaust to be Sunday, April
11 through Sunday April 18, 2010,
including the Day of Remembrance
known as Yom Hashoah on April
11th; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation

The City Record
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that the Days of
Remembrance have been set aside
for the people of the City of Cleveland to remember the victims of the
Holocaust as well as to reflect on
the need for respect of all people;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council designates the week of Sunday, April
11 through Sunday, April 18, 2010 as
Days of Remembrance in the City of
Cleveland in memory of the victims
of the Holocaust, including the Day
of Remembrance known as Yom
Hashoah on April 11th, and in honor
of the survivors, as well as the rescuers and liberators, and proclaim
that the citizens of Cleveland should
work to promote human dignity and
confront hate whenever and wherever it occurs.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to the Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland,
1750 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 365-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 3232 Lakeside Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 931-09, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 3232 Lakeside Avenue by
Resolution No. 931-09 adopted by the
Council on July 1, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 3232 Lakeside Avenue, Flextron,
LLC DBA Gotcha Inn, Permanent
Number 2779680, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 931-09, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

376

March 24, 2010
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 374-10.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Westbrook and Sweeney.
An emergency resolution supporting the United States U Visa program, which is a temporary visa
authorizing non-U.S. citizen crime
victims who assist law enforcement
with crime investigations to remain
in this country up to four years and
urging the Cleveland Police Department to participate in the U Visa
program when practicable.
Whereas, in 2000, the U.S. Congress created the U Visa classification in the Victims of Trafficking
and Violence Prevention Act (the
“Act”), which allows foreign visitors
and other non-US citizens who are
victims of specified criminal activity, and who are needed to assist
government officials in the investigation or prosecution of such criminal activity, to legally remain in the
US for up to 4 years; and
Whereas, in passing the Act and
creating the U Visa program, it was
Congress’ intent to strengthen the
ability of local law enforcement
agencies to detect, investigate or
prosecute serious crimes committed
against non-US citizens by providing them with legal status in this
country when they assist local law
enforcement agencies; and
Whereas, by creating the U Visa
program, Congress also intended to
offer “protection to victims of offenses in keeping with the humanitarian
interests
of
the
United
States”; and
Whereas, information and assistance about serious crimes provided
to law enforcement by foreign crime
victims improves the safety and
overall quality of life of a city’s residents; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the United States U Visa program, which is a temporary visa
authorizing non-U.S. citizen crime
victims who assist law enforcement
with crime investigations to remain
in this country up to four years and
urges the Cleveland Police Department to participate in the U Visa
program when practicable.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

March 24, 2010
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 375-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Kelley and Cummins.
An emergency resolution opposing
the application to the Ohio Department of Natural Resources by Ty
Inc. for a Mineral Mining Permit to
strip mine sand and clay from 4300
Bradley Road adjacent to Skylane
Drive in Ward 12.
Whereas, Ty Inc., an Independence corporation, has applied for a
Mineral Mining Permit (#10428) to
strip mine 8.5 acres along Skylane
Drive and Bradley Road in Ward 12;
and
Whereas, Ty Inc. intends to go
down 30-40 feet in order to obtain
approximately 20,000 to 30,00 cubic
yards of clay and sand; and
Whereas, the land area requested
to be strip mined is located between
two creeks running through the
area; and
Whereas, the strip mine would be
adjacent to residences on Skylane
Drive in Cleveland; and
Whereas, the 15 year permit may
compromise the ecosystem of the
creeks, the water and air quality of
the area, the property value of the
area residents and the quality of
life of those residents; and
Whereas, granting such a permit
could set a terrible precedent for
other vacant land in our community; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby opposes the application to the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources by Ty Inc. for a Mineral
Mining Permit to strip mine sand
and clay from 4300 Bradley Road,
adjacent to Skylane Drive in Ward
12.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to the Chief
of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources, Division of Mineral Resources Management.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 376-10.
By Council Members Zone and
Cimperman.
An emergency resolution supporting H.R. 4722, the “Active Community Transportation Act of 2010”
recently
introduced
in
the
U.S.
House of Representatives.
Whereas, in the last 15 years,
more than 76,000 Americans have
been killed while walking or crossing the street; and
Whereas, by making walking and
biking a safer, more attractive
option, we will save time and money
as individuals, as communities, and
as a nation; and
Whereas, the United States could
save tens of billions of dollars every
year by investing in more walking
and bicycling; and
Whereas, with the high costs of
driving, mounting congestion, an
obesity epidemic, oil dependence
and environmental concerns, American need to have the healthy and
affordable choice to travel by foot
or bicycle for the shorter trips that
dominate our daily routines; and
Whereas, a quarter of all trips
taken in the United States are within a 20-minute walk; and
Whereas, H.R. 4722 would enable
communities to compete on merit for
targeted funds to complete active
transportation networks to enable
Americans to walk or bike safely
and conveniently; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports H.R. 4722, the “Active Community Transportation Act of 2010”
recently
introduced
in
the
U.S.
House of Representatives.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
all members Congress representing
northeast Ohio and Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 377-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of stock of a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 75 Public Square, Suite B-100.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of stock of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit at Underground Entertainment, Inc., DBA
Underground,
75
Public
Square,

377

13
Suite B-100, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permanent Number 9148958; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of stock of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit at Underground
Entertainment, Inc., DBA Underground, 75 Public Square, Suite B100, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 9148958, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.

14
Res. No. 378-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of Liquor License
of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to
3403 Croton Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from McCormick
& Associates, Inc., DBA Grid, Bar 1
& 2, 1437 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
57132430001 to Downtown Croton,
Inc., DBA Downtown Croton, 3403
Croton
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 2293300;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from McCormick &
Associates, Inc., DBA Grid, Bar 1 &
2, 1437 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
57132430001 to Downtown Croton,
Inc., DBA Downtown Croton, 3403
Croton
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 2293300,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the

The City Record
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 379-10.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 3258 East 140th Street and
repealing Resolution No. 1735-09,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3258
East 140th Street by Resolution No.
1735-09 adopted by the Council on
November 23, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 3258 East
140th Street, Inc. DBA Abell Foods,
3258 East 140th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
8871287, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 173509, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 380-10.
By Council Members Polensek and
Sweeney.
An emergency resolution strongly
recommending that the Ohio Department
of
Transportation
(ODOT)
replace the noise walls along I-90 in
Cleveland when it replaces the noise
walls along I-90 in Euclid, and further recommending that ODOT replace the noise walls along I-71
South between West 150th and the
I-71 I-480 split.

378

March 24, 2010
Whereas, this summer, the Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
is replacing the noise walls on Interstate 90 in the City of Euclid; and
Whereas, ODOT has admitted that
these noise walls are badly deteriorated and replacement is necessary;
and
Whereas, noise walls along I-90 in
Cleveland, from East 140th to East
200th, just west of the noise walls
in Euclid, were installed at the
same time as those along I-90 in
Euclid and are in the same deteriorated condition; and
Whereas, over the past two years,
members of this Council have sent
letters to ODOT District 12 asking
that Cleveland’s stretch of noise
walls on I-90 be repaired and replaced; and
Whereas, the noise walls along I71 South between West 150th and
the I-71 I-480 split have also fallen
into a deteriorated condition and
should be repaired and replaced; and
Whereas, this Council can think of
no conceivable reason that ODOT
should not extend the replacement
of the I-90 noise walls to include the
stretch from East 140th to East
200th in the City of Cleveland, as
well as the noise walls along I-71
South between West 150th and the
I-71 I-480 split in the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby strongly recommends that the
Ohio Department of Transportation
(ODOT) replace the noise walls
along I-90 in Cleveland when it
replaces the noise walls along I-90
in Euclid and further recommends
that ODOT replace the noise walls
along I-71 South between West 150th
and the I-71 I-480 split.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to the Chief
of the Ohio Department of Transportation, State Senators Shirley
Smith, Nina Turner and Dale Miller
and State Representatives Kenny
Yuko, Barbara Boyd, Robin Belcher
and Mike Foley.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 381-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cimperman, Zone, Westbrook, Cummins, Mitchell, Brady, Miller, Pruitt,
Dow, Kelley, Cleveland, Conwell
and J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio Department of Transportation to include bicycle and pedestri-

March 24, 2010
an facilities in order to permit bicycles and pedestrians access on the
planned Inner Belt Bridge.
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
affirms that bicycling and walking
accommodations should be a routine
part of the City’s planning, design,
construction and operating activities, and will be included in the
everyday operations of our transportation system; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
adds their support for bicycling and
pedestrian access on the Inner Belt
Bridge to that already expressed by
U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown, and
U.S. Representative Dennis Kucinich.
Whereas, Governor Ted Strickland
asked
the
Ohio
Department
of
Transportation to take a renewed
look and study whether a multipurpose bicycle and pedestrian lane is
feasible; and
Whereas, the citizens who live in
Cleveland’s neighborhoods demand,
and will benefit from enhanced bicycle and pedestrian access on the
Inner Belt Bridge; and
Whereas, allowing access for bicyclists and pedestrians by adding a
multipurpose lane to the Inner Belt
Bridge will demonstrate Ohio’s emergence into a green economy; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Urging the Ohio Department of Transportation to include
bicycle and pedestrian facilities in
order to permit bicycles and pedestrians access on the planned Inner
Belt Bridge.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Governor
Ted Strickland, U.S. Senator Sherrod
Brown, U.S. Representative Dennis
Kucinich, 10th District, the Ohio Department of Transportation, Cleveland
Planning Commission, Kent State University’s Cleveland Urban Design Collaborative, and Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 3.
Those voting yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Reed and Westbrook.
Those voting nay: Council Members Sweeney, Keane and Polensek.
Absent: Council Member Zone.
Res. No. 382-10.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Sweeney, Polensek, Cleveland, Westbrook, Brancatelli, Mitchell, Pruitt,
Kelley, Keane, Miller, Brady and J.
Johnson.
An emergency resolution designating Lakeside Avenue between
East 12th Street and West 3rd Street

The City Record
with a secondary and honorary designation of “Police Memorial Way”
with street signs at all intersections;
and designating all four corners of
the intersection of West 3rd Street
and Lakeside Avenue with a secondary and honorary designation of
“Police
Memorial
Square”
with
street signs on all four corners.
Whereas, this Council joins with
the Greater Cleveland Peace officers
Memorial Society to honor those
police officers who have made the
ultimate sacrifice to protect the
safety of Cleveland’s citizens and
those of Cuyahoga, Geauga, Lake,
Lorain, Medina, and Northern Summit County; and,
Whereas, the citizens of Cleveland
want to honor fallen police officers
and survivors by designating Lakeside Avenue between East 12th
Street and West 3rd Street with a
secondary and honorary designation
of “Police Memorial Way” with
street signs at all intersections; and
designating all four corners of the
intersection of West 3rd Street and
Lakeside Avenue with a secondary
and honorary designation of “Police
Memorial Square” with street signs
on all four corners; and,
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Lakeside Avenue
between East 12th Street and West
3rd Street is designated with a secondary and honorary designation of
“Police Memorial Way” with street
signs at all intersections; and all
four corners of the intersection of
West 3rd Street and Lakeside Avenue is designated with a secondary
and honorary designation of “Police
Memorial Square” with street signs
on all four corners.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 383-10.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 2325
Elm Street, and repealing Resolution No. 1089-09, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 2325
Elm Street by Resolution No. 1089-09
adopted by the Council on August 5,
2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and

379

15
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to Metropolis
Night Club, 2325 Elm Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
5870816 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 108909, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 384-10.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 14300
Kinsman Road, 1st floor and basement, and repealing Resolution No.
1146-09, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 14300
Kinsman Road by Resolution No.
1146-09 adopted by the Council on
August 5, 2009; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Robert Dale
Batch, DBA Your Snack Shack, 14300
Kinsman Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
Permanent Number 0505406 be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1146-09, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.

16
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 88-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more amendments
to Contract No. 55879 with Continental Airlines, Inc. to modify the
option period to reflect two (2) five
(5) year option periods.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 189-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise an option to renew Contract
No. 67714 with Michael Baker Jr.,
Inc. to provide general engineering
design services, for the Department
of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, lines 2 and 3,
strike “at a cost not to exceed
$1,546,054.69,”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 190-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the option to renew Contract No. 67927 with Gardiner Service Company for the necessary
items of labor and materials necessary to maintain and repair heating,
ventilation and air conditioning systems, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 191-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the option to renew Contract No. 67928 with The Shelly Company for the necessary items of asphalt for runways, taxiways, ramps,
and roadways, including labor and
materials for repair and installation,
if necessary, for the various divisions of the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage rec-

The City Record
ommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 2, strike “year
I” and insert “year in”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 192-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the option to renew Contract No. 68074 with Kone, Inc. for
the necessary items of labor and
materials necessary to maintain and
repair existing elevators, escalators
and moving sidewalks, or the replacement of units if necessary,
including installation and removal
of existing units, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 193-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the option to renew Contract
No.
68124
with
Interline
Brands, Inc., dba AmSan for the necessary items of janitorial maintenance and cleaning supplies, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 194-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the options to renew Contract Nos. 68337, 68338, and 68339
with various suppliers for employee
uniforms and related items for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 4, strike
“126,796” and and insert “170,000”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

380

March 24, 2010
Ord. No. 195-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the option to renew Contract No. 68360 with Hi-Lite Markings, Inc. for the necessary items of
labor and materials to remove rubber and any other contaminants
from paved surfaces for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 302-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise an option to renew Contract
No. 67820 with RW Armstrong, Inc.
to provide general engineering design services, for the Department of
Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 307-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 915-09,
passed July 1, 2009, relating to contract with Miles Shopping Plaza
LLC to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the construction of a new retail center located at Miles Avenue and
East 131st Street.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1548-09.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
one or more concession agreements
for a period not to exceed one year,
with annual one year options to
renew exercisable by the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties, to
implement a pilot program regarding the operation of vending carts
and other outdoor portable concessions to offer first class, quality and
unique foods and beverages to the
public in various public spaces, for
the Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.

March 24, 2010
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 10-10.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Ohio Department of Public Safety
for the 2009 Buffer Zone Protection
Program; authorizing the Director to
employ one or more professional
consultants; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
contracts with Cuyahoga County to
implement the grant, for the Department of Public Safety.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 11-10.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
State Farm Insurance for the State
Farm Good Neighbor Citizenship
Program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 87-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 695-09, passed June 8, 2009, relating to the purchase by requirement
contracts of labor and materials
needed to test, evaluate, repair, or
replace roofs and appurtenances, for
the Department of Public Utilities.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 89-10.
By Council Members Pruitt, Mitchell
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 171.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 308-01,

The City Record
passed March 26, 2001, relating to
longevity pay for regular full-time
employees.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 131-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept
grants from the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development for the CDBG Year 36
under Title I of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974,
for the 2010 Federal HOME Grant
Program, Emergency Shelter Grant
Program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 267-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating funds credited to Fund No. 17
SF 008 to provide NEHST Creations
LLC, and/or its designee, with a
loan guarantee on three films approved by the State of Ohio for the
State of Ohio Film Tax Credit and
authorizing the execution and delivery of appropriate documents in connection with such guarantee.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 308-10.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to employ one or
more professional services necessary to provide group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision and life insurance coverage, the medical reimbursement
accounts, dependent care accounts,

17
and premium pass-through benefits
under Internal Revenue Code Section 125 for City of Cleveland
employees, for a period of one year.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 268-10.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution supporting the Village of Cuyahoga
Heights’ grant application to the
Clean Ohio Council for Clean Ohio
Revitalization Program funds to be
used for the remediation and redevelopment of the Premier Development Partners, LLC project located
at 6551 Grant Avenue in the City
of Cleveland and Village of Cuyahoga Heights.
Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Brady, seconded
by Council Member Kelley, and unanimously carried, that the absence of
Council Member Matthew Zone be and
is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:05 p.m. to meet on Monday, March 29,
2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on its final passage at the next meeting:
Ord. No. 158-10.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of
all municipal departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2010 until December
31, 2010.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year ending December
31, 2010, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Five Hundred Eleven Million, Three Hundred Fifty Four Thousand, Eighty One Dollars ($511,354,081)
from the General Fund;
The sum of Fifty Three Million, Five Hundred Eighty Three Thousand, Three Hundred Ninety Six Dollars
($53,583,396) from the Special Revenue Funds;
The sum of Twenty Seven Million, Two Hundred Twenty Six Thousand, Nine Hundred Fifty One Dollars
($27,226,951) from the Internal Service Funds;
The sum of Six Hundred Forty Five Million, Eight Hundred Seventy Three Thousand, Eight Dollars ($645,873,008)
from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Ten Million, One Hundred Twenty Six Thousand, Seven Hundred Sixty Two Dollars ($10,126,762)
from the Trust and Agency Funds;
The sum of Sixty Two Million, Four Hundred Eleven Thousand, Three Hundred Twenty Seven Dollars
($62,411,327) from the Debt Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor’s Estimate on file with Council and identified in the aggregate amount for each
department as follows:

381

The City Record

18

March 24, 2010

GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
General Government
Department of Aging
Department of Personnel
Department of Consumer Affairs
Department of Law
Department of Finance
Department of Port Control
Department of Public Service
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties
Department of Building and Housing
Department of Economic Development
Nondepartmental

$

6,263,014
40,352,220

8,055,947
864,052
1,652,803
316,104
8,244,483
13,331,185
242,708
35,154,368
5,620,812
303,690,205
36,888,893
9,427,613
1,288,639
39,961,035
———————
$ 464,738,847
———————
———————
$ 511,354,081
———————
———————
$
53,583,396
27,226,951
645,873,008
10,126,762
62,411,327
———————
$1,310,575,525
––——————
––——————

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH
TOTAL GENERAL FUND
Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Trust and Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2010

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

6,263,014

4,586,639
1,676,375
––——————
$
6,263,014
––——————
––——————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

22,634,366

$

14,421,653

$

3,296,201

$ 20,072,417
2,561,949

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

9,135,356
5,286,297

Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,137,393
158,808
––——————
40,352,220
$
––——————
––——————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

2,144,245
137,264

Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

171,557
4,433

382

$

2,281,509

$

175,990

March 24, 2010

The City Record

19

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expensess
II.
Other Expenses

$

108,169
7,242

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

185,515
12,160

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

545,991
752,673

Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,081,477
80,795

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,437,019
76,328

$

5,696

Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

518,676
24,741

Office of Budget & Management-Budget Admin.
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

595,988
165,978

Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

115,411

$

197,675

$

1,298,664

$

1,162,272

$

1,513,347

$

5,696

$

543,417

$

761,966

––——————
$
8,055,947
––——————
––——————

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

864,052

734,825
129,227
––——————
$
864,052
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL
Office of Personnel
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,652,803

1,064,453
588,350
––——————
$
1,652,803
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
Consumer Affair
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

316,104

274,712
41,392
––——————
$
316,104
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Division of Law
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

8,244,483

6,556,909
1,687,574
––——————
8,244,483
$
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

383

20

The City Record

March 24, 2010

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

777,987
64,506

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,261,239
631,444

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,296,933
911,711

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

574,575
87,387

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

514,810
34,700

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

568,382
372,039

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,301,295
32,821

Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,099,075
1,629,932

Information Tech & Planning
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

155,862
16,487

$

842,493

$

1,892,683

$

3,208,644

$

661,962

$

549,510

$

940,421

$

1,334,116

$

3,729,007

$

172,349

––——————
$
13,331,185
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Division of Harbors
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

242,708

93,408
149,300
––——————
$
242,708
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
Public Service Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

374,874
25,645

Division of Architecture
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

522,306
27,755

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

4,263,491
476,904

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,897,744
992,798

384

400,519

$

550,061

$

25,572,851

$

4,740,395

$

3,890,542

$ 15,126,083
10,446,768

Division of Engineering and Construction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

$

––——————
$
35,154,368
––——————
––——————

The City Record

March 24, 2010

21

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

Other Expenses

II.

3,201,756

$

1,158,684

$

427,211

1,254,210

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

1,004,773
153,911

Division of Air Quality
I.

$
1,947,546

Division of Environment
I.

833,161

259,612

Division of Health
I.

$
573,549

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

145,711
281,500
––——————
$
5,620,812
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

II.

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

II.

Other Expenses

II.

89,193,842

$

21,429,594

$

1,068,244

$

14,757,101

2,850,464

Personnel and Related Expenses

$ 19,133,156

Other Expenses

2,296,438

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

823,511
244,733

Division of Correction
I.

$
$ 86,343,378

Division of Dog Pound
I.

173,822,597

8,601,540

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.

$
$165,221,057

Division of Fire
I.

3,418,827

1,090,716

Division of Police
I.

$
2,328,111

Personnel and Related Expenses

$ 11,339,732
3,417,369

Other Expenses

––——————
$ 303,690,205
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Parks, Recreation, and Properties Administration
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

II.

740,215

$

13,202,284

$

1,257,615

76,149

Other Expenses

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

9,332,824
3,869,460

Other Expenses

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
I.

$
664,066

Division of Recreation
I.

695,199

145,213

Division of Research, Planning, and Development
I.

$
549,986

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$

1,197,750
59,865

385

The City Record

22

March 24, 2010

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,650,516
2,811,081

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

7,987,606
4,544,377

TOTAL DEPT. OF PARKS, REC., AND PROPERTIES

$

8,461,597

$

12,531,983

––——————
$
36,888,893
––——————
––——————

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,512,501
351,575

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,831,335
174,552

Division of Construction Permit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,539,995
17,655

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

$

1,864,076

$

6,005,887

$

1,557,650

––——————
$
9,427,613
––——————
––——————

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,288,639

1,224,726
63,913

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

––——————
$
1,288,639
––——————
––——————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.
Other Expenses

$

Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses

$ 19,149,637

Transfers to Other Funds
Other Expenses
II.

$ 18,375,223

$

2,436,175

$

19,149,637

$

18,375,223

2,436,175

––——————
$
39,961,035
––——————
––——————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$ 464,738,847
––——————
––——————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$ 511,354,081
––——————
––——————
SPECIAL REVENUE FUND

Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
Capital
II.
Debt Service

$

$

32,917,751

$

19,665,645

$

1,000,000

8,142,916
24,774,835

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 13,592,156
6,073,489

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,000,000
––——————
53,583,396
$
––——————
––——————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

386

The City Record

March 24, 2010

23

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Information Systems Services-Telephone Exchange
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

Other Expenses

II.

17,418,449

$

2,468,496

$

873,108

11,587,516

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

863,054
1,605,442

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.

$
5,830,933

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.

6,466,898

5,337,823

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.

$
1,129,075

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

96,188
776,920
––——————
$
27,226,951
––——————
––——————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,976,716
587,211

$

417,065
1,557,790

$

2,888,100
386,328

Radio
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 79,498,526
183,414,447

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 10,588,455
12,137,510

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 28,251,992
141,962,870

$

2,563,927

$

1,974,855

$

3,274,428

$

262,912,973

$

22,725,965

$

170,214,862

––——————
$ 463,667,010
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
Airports - Operations
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$ 31,929,496
II.
Other Expenses
115,118,672

$

147,048,168

––——————
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

$

147,048,168

––——————
––——————
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
$

Division of Cemeteries
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

1,278,247
476,942

Other Expenses

387

1,755,189

The City Record

24

March 24, 2010

Golf Course Funds
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

Other Expenses

II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

II.

$

10,342,163

$

4,643,302

$

1,114,280

$

15,465,808

$

40,000

1,140,590

Other Expenses

9,201,573

Division of Convention Center
I.

1,797,088

790,137

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.

$
1,006,951

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

1,819,746

Other Expenses

2,823,556

Division of Convention Center & StadiumWest Side Market
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

368,152

Other Expenses

746,128

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Stadium
II.

Other Expenses

$ 15,465,808

Division of Property Management East Side Market
II.

Other Expenses

$

40,000
––——————
$
35,157,830
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPT. OF PARKS, REC., AND PROPERTIES
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$ 645,873,008
––——————
––——————
AGENCY FUND

Central Collection Agency
I.
II.

$

Personnel and Related Expenses

$

10,126,762

6,218,304

Other Expenses

3,908,458
––——————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

$
10,126,762
––——————
––——————
DEBT SERVICE FUND

Sinking Fund Commission
I.
II.
III.

$ 62,411,327

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

$

175,176
423,568

Debt Service

61,812,583
––——————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

$
62,411,327
––——————
––——————

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the Mayor’s
Estimate, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for I. - Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. - Other Expenses and are not severally and individually appropriated in
said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 2009 is hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 2010 or prior years. The Mayor’s
Estimate, File No 158-10-A as modified by the schedule published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter shall within the sums appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure budget for the year 2010 and shall be
subject to the control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer from I. - Personnel and Related Expenses, or II. - Other Expenses within any department or office, or from one department or office to another shall be
made except as provided in Section 41 of the Charter.
Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is hereby authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury
for the amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of
the department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed
by law.

388

March 24, 2010
BOARD OF CONTROL
March 17, 2010
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, March 17, 2010,
at 10:35 a.m. with Director Triozzi
presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, R. Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Director Nichols, Acting Directors Odom,
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: James Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Natoya Walker, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 108-10.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on November 12, 2009,
for an estimated labor and materials to install, maintain and repair a
system to electronically track the
Mobile Assets, for various divisions
of City government, under the authority of Ordinance 538-09, passed
May 4, 2009, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, R. Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Director Nichols, Acting Directors Odom,
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 109-10.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Terrace Construction
Co.,
Inc.
for
the
public
improvement of construction and
installation of replacement sewers
and repair and rehabilitation of
existing sewers at various locations, base bid items including 10%
contingency
allowance,
for
the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities,
received on February 24, 2010,
under the authority of Section
129.292 of Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, upon a unit
basis for the improvements to be
performed as ordered during the
period of one (1) year starting
upon execution of a contract, at the
unit prices set forth in the bid,
which on the basis of the estimated work to be done would amount
to
$436,755.00,
is
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the improvement, which contract shall
provide for an initial order for performance of work, the cost of
which order shall be certified to
the
contract
in
the
sum
of
$400,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the contractor
will perform so much of the balance
of the work as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the requirement contract, whether the same

The City Record
shall be less than the total estimate
of work to be performed under the
contract or shall exceed the same by
not more than ten percent.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors to Terrace Construction Co., Inc. for the
above¬mentioned public improvement
by requirement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

Vallejo Co.

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK
CSB/MBE
$ 31,050.00(7.109%)

RockportConstruction
CSB/FBE
$100,000.00(22.896%)
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, R. Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Director Nichols, Acting Directors Odom,
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 110-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No
912-07, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 11, 2007,
as amended by Ordinance No. 637-08,
passed June 9, 2008 and Ordinance
No. 455-09, passed June 8, 2009, TranSystems Corporation of Ohio is
selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Public Service from a
list of qualified engineering consultants or firms of such consultants
determined to be available after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Service as the
firm to be employed by contract to
supplement the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City to obtain the engineering
services necessary for the West 3rd
Lift Bridge Evaluation, Report and
Recommendations.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into a written contract
with TranSystems Corporation of
Ohio based on its proposal dated
November 20, 2009, as amended by
its
revised
cost
proposal
dated
March 3, 2010, provided that the compensation to be paid shall not
exceed $47,955.00. The agreement
authorized above shall be prepared
by the Director of Law and shall
contain such other provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by TranSystems Corporation of Ohio for the above authorized contract is approved:
Plotz Mechanical Co.
(CSB) — $4,800.00 — (10.00%)
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, R. Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Director Nichols, Acting Directors Odom,
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

389

25
Resolution No. 111-10.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of VIP Electric Company, for
the public improvement of the building
improvements
for
the
new
breathing air compressors and fill
stations for Fire Stations 5 and 10,
base bid, for the Department of Public Service, received on January 14,
2010, under the authority of Ordinance No. 490-07, passed June 4, 2007
by the Cleveland City Council, for a
gross price for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of $130,400.00,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bidder, and the
Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into a contract for the
improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by VIP
Electric Company is approved:
Subcontractor
MBE/FBE

Amount
Percentage

DDC & Inc.
CSB/MBE

$19,600.00
15.031%

Lakeland Electric Inc.
CSB/FBE

$11,760.00
9.018%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, R. Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Director Nichols, Acting Directors Odom,
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 112-10.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on August 27, 2009, for
Hoses, Nozzles and fittings, for the
Division of Fire, Department of Public Safety, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 920-07, passed July 11,
2007 are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, R. Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Director Nichols, Acting Directors Odom,
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 113-10.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 922-07 and Ordinance
No. 1176-08, passed by City Council
on July 11, 2007 and November 10,
2008, respectively, and Ordinance No.
485-07, passed June 11, 2007, as
amended by Ordinance Nos. 1163-08
and 1389-09, passed on August 6,
2008 and September 21, 2009, respectively, and Resolution No. 352-09,
adopted by the Board of Control on
September 2, 2009, as amended by
Board of Control Resolution Nos.
356-09 and 456-09, adopted on September 9, 2009 and October 14, 2009,
respectively, the City of Cleveland,
through the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Ziska
Architects, LLC (“Architect”) entered into City Contract No. 69887 on
December 3, 2009 to obtain professional architectural and engineering

The City Record

26
services necessary to renovate and
rehabilitate various recreation centers and portions of City Hall; and,
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 16-10, passed by Cleveland City Council on January 11,
2010, the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties entered into a
first modification to City Contract
No. 69887 on January 12, 2010 to
obtain additional professional services from the Architect that were
necessary to conduct a facilities
assessment of Public Auditorium;
and,
Whereas, the City desires to further modify the City Contract No.
69887 to include professional services necessary to design improvements to the kitchen at Thurgood
Marshall Recreation Center as proposed in the Architect’s letter dated
January 7, 2010 (“Proposal”); now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties is authorized to enter
into a second modification to Contract No. 69887 to obtain the additional professional services described in Architect’s Proposal for an additional fee of $8,250.00, including
the $1,000.00 contingency, thereby
increasing the total contract amount
for all services to $183,050.00.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by Architect under the
second modification to Contract No.
69887 is approved:
Subconsultant

Amount
Percentage of
Modification

Polytech, Inc. (CSB/MBE)

$3,000.00
36.3%

Dubick Fixture

$ 750.00
9.1%

Be it further resolved that the
modification authorized hereby shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall include such additional
provisions, as said Director deems
necessary to benefit and protect the
public interest.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, R. Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Director Nichols, Acting Directors Odom,
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 114-10.
By Director Rush.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Dodson & Associates, Inc.,
for the public improvement for the
North Point Inn kitchen and dining
room renovations, base bid, for the
Department of Community Development, received on December 9, 2009,
under the authority of Ordinance
531-07, passed April 23, 2007, and
amended by Ordinance No. 1946-07,
passed November 26, 2007, and Ordinance No. 869-08, passed July 2, 2008,
for a gross price for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
$251,888.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest responsible bidder,
and the Director of Community

March 24, 2010

Development is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractors by Dodson & Associates, Inc. is approved:

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

Subcontractor
CSB/MBE/FBE

Amount
Percentage

Mac Mechanical
CSB/FBE

$20,522.00
8.147%

Miles Mechanical
CSB/MBE

$46,495.00
18.459%

Landmark Plumbing
CSB/FBE

$13,695.00
5.437%

Ernie Electric
MBE

$35,000.00
13.895%

JS Sharp

$ 3,600.00
1.429%

E.R. Flynn

$ 4,700.00
1.865%

Castle Heating

$58,000.00
23.026%

Calendar No. 10-29: 12200 Mayfield
Road (Ward 9)
Roseanne Passalacqua, owner, appeals to change use from a retail
bakery to a restaurant with a maximum of 60 seats and 15 employees
in an existing three story building
on a 50' x 175' corner parcel in a
General Retail Business District;
with 6 parking spaces credited for
the previous use and 24 new accessory off-street parking spaces required, at the rate of 1 space for
every 4 seats, plus 1 for each employee according to Section 349.04(f);
and the substitution of a nonconforming use, the available accessory off-street parking spaces, requires the Board of Zoning Appeals
approval as stated in Section 359.01
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

Action Door

$ 6,400.00
2.540%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Withers, R. Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Acting Director West, Director Nichols, Acting Directors Odom,
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

390

MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2010
9:30 A.M.

Calendar No. 10-35: 5702 Franklin
Boulevard (Ward 15)
Lynnhaven Development Group LLC,
owner, appeals to erect a one-story
13.6' x 20' frame, attached garage
to a one-family dwelling on an irregular shaped corner parcel in a TwoFamily District; and providing a
rear yard depth of 3 feet where 20
feet is required according to Section
357.08 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-33: 9509 Lake Avenue (Ward 16)
St. Thomas Lutheran Church appeals to erect a 5' x 8' double faced,
illuminated ground sign in an existing planter at the front of a church
building located on a 50' x 200' parcel in a One-Family District; and
contrary to Section 350.13(b) the proposed sign is set back 10 feet contrary to the requirement for 20 feet
in accordance with the Schedule of
Location Regulations Table (Residential) in Section 350.13(b) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2010
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
22, 2010, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 10-27: 3162 East 93rd
Street (Ward 6)
Orealous Caldwell appealed to expand a barber shop to include a tattoo shop in a General Retail Business District; subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 09-237: 3751 Valley
Road (Ward 3)
Hill Diversified Properties LLC
appealed to erect 477 linear feet of

The City Record

March 24, 2010
7-foot chain link and barbed wire
fence in a General Industry District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 10-26: Notice of Violation — 1969 East 119th Street
(Ward 9)
Little Italy Development LLC appealed from a Notice of Violation
issued by the Building and Housing
Department for failure to comply
with provisions in the City of Cleveland Zoning Code.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 10-10: 1104 Rowley Avenue (Ward 3)
Theodore Polanski appealed to
substitute the nonconforming use of
a two-story building from a store to
a restaurant/bar in a Two-Family
District.

27

pre-manufactured wheelchair lift and
a front porch landing on a parcel in
an A1 One-Family District; subject
to conditions.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on March 8, 2010 was adopted and approved by the Board on
March 22, 2010.
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 10-5: 3837 Ridge Road
WHS Services, Inc., owner, and
Salem Hasrouni, tenant, appealed to
add entertainment/dance hall use to
an existing tavern in a Semi-Industry District; subject to conditions.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING
was

Vehicle Mileage Allowance

The following appeals heard by
the Board on March 15, 2010 were
adopted and approved on March 22,
2010.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 10-16: 16208 St. Clair
Avenue (Ward 11)
Najib Chedid appealed for a new
24 hours daily use of a drive-through
lane and to erect a wind turbine in
a C2 Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 10-24: 2021 West 11th
Street (Ward 3)
David F. Perse appealed to erect
a 2-story single family residence on
a corner parcel in a C1 Multi-Family District.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on December 7, 2009 was
adopted and approved by the Board
on March 22, 2010.
The following
proved:

PUBLIC NOTICE

Dis-

None.

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 09-14: 12010 Bellaire
Road
Dolores Wagner appealed to change
use from a service station to an auto
repair garage an existing building
on an irregular corner parcel in a
General Retail Business District;
subject to condition.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on January 4, 2010 was adopted and approved by the Board on
March 22, 2010.

Pursuant to C.O. Section 171.43, as
amended by Ordinance No. 499-08,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, Ohio on April 28, 2008, the
Director of Finance establishes the
Vehicle Mileage Allowance of $.505.
Sharon Dumas, Director
Finance Department
_____
March 17, 2010, March 24, 2010 and
March 31, 2010

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, March 31, 2010
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
March 31, 2010, at 1:00 p.m., to consider the following ordinances now
pending in the Council:

Ap-

Ord. No 167-10.
By Council Member Miller.
Establishing the Euclid-Green Design Review District (Map Change
No. 2296, Sheet No. 7).

Calendar No. 09-258: 18300 Lotus
Drive
Ervin Simmons, owner, and Janice
Talley, tenant, appealed to erect a

Ord. No 168-10.
By Council Member Miller.
Establishing the East 140th Lake
Shore Design Review District (Map
Change No. 2293, Sheet No. 7).

The following
proved:

appeal

was

All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Chair
Committee on City Planning
March 17, 2010 and March 24, 2010

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments

None.
appeal

Ord. No 170-10.
By Council Member Miller.
Establishing the Five Points Design Review District (Map Change
No. 2295, Sheet No. 7).

_____
Secretary

The following appeal was Postponed:

The following
missed:

Ord. No 169-10.
By Council Member Miller.
Establishing the Three Points Design Review District (Map Change
No. 2294, Sheet No. 7 and 8).

391

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2010
File No. 50-2010 — Pool Chemical,
for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Section 181.101, Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
MARCH 25, 2010 AT 10:00 A.M.

The City Record

28
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
RECREATION,
ROOM
8,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
March 17, 2010 and March 24, 2010

THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
APRIL 1, 2010 AT 10:00 A.M.,
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, ROOM
518, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2010

March 24, 2010
COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Thursday, March 18, 2010
11:00 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation Committee: Present: Keane, Chair; Pruitt,
Vice Chair; Cummins, K. Johnson,
Kelley, Mitchell. Authorized Absence:
J. Johnson.

March 24, 2010 and March 31, 2010
File No. 49-2010 — Filter Rehabilitation Project Crown Water Plant
Project No. 601, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 270-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 5, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
ONE
HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
SPECIFICATIONS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 26, 2010 AT 1:30 P.M.
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
MAIN AUDITORIUM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
March 17, 2010 and March 24, 2010
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 2010
File No. 53-2010 — CUY — S.R. 10-8.92
(Lorain Avenue) Resurfacing West
Corporation Line to West 150th
Street, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service as authorized by Ordinance Nos. 319-09
and 1786-09, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland,
March 16, 2009 and December 7,
2009, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
SEVENTY-FIVE DOLLARS ($75.00)
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).

THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2010
File No. 52-2010 — Re-Manufactured
Allison Transmissions and Repairs, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 686-07, passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANMEETING
DATORY
PRE-BID
MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2010 AT 11:00
A.M.
THE
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST 49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44108.

Monday, March 22, 2010
9:00 a.m.
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present:
Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice Chair;
Cummins, Mitchell, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: J. Johnson, K. Johnson.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
Tuesday, March 23, 2010
9:30 a.m.

March 24, 2010 and March 31, 2010
FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 2010
File No. 51-2010 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Repair and
Maintain Plate Trucks (Re-Bid),
for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 181.101, of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2010 AT 10:00 A.M.
THE DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, RED CONFERENCE ROOM, 12302 KIRBY
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44108.

March 24, 2010 and March 31, 2010

Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, Mitchell, Pruitt,
Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Cimperman, Zone. Pro tempore: Mitchell.
1:30 p.m.
Public Service Committee: Present:
Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice Chair;
Dow, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney. Authorized Absence: Cleveland,
K. Johnson.
Wednesday, March 24, 2010
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell, Chair; Polensek, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell.
Authorized Absence: Cleveland, Zone.
1:30 p.m.

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

NONE

Public Utilities Committee: Present:
Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice Chair;
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Polensek,
Pruitt, Westbrook. Authorized Absence:
Mitchell.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

AIDS
Federal HOME Grant Program (2010)- Emergency Shelter Grant Program (2010)- Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (2010)- CDBG Year 36 - Community
Development Department - Grants (O 131-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

392

The City Record

March 24, 2010

29

Agreements
Amend Ord. No. 1676-09 - NetX Internet - agreement - wireless internet service (O 373-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
Clerk of Council - Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 362-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374
RTA - Pilot Neighborhood Transportation Program - Ward(s)16, 17, 18, 19 (NEF)(O 370-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Appropriations
Appropriations - Year 2010 (O 158-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Board of Control - Community Development Department
North Point Inn kitchen, dining room renovations - per Ord. 531-07, Ord. 1946-07,
and Ord. 869-08 to Dodson & Associates, Inc. (BOC Res. 114-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Board of Control - Fire Division
Hoses, nozzles and fittings, per Ord. 920-70 are rejected (BOC Res. 112-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Board of Control - Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Thurgood Marshall Recreation Center, kitchen improvements - modify Contract #69887 with
Ziska Architects, LLC (BOC Res. 113-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Board of Control - Public Improvement Contracts
Fire Stations 5 and 10, new air breathing compressors and fill stations - per Ord. 490-07
to VIP Electric Company (BOC Res. 111-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
North Point Inn kitchen, dining room renovations - per Ord. 531-07, Ord. 1946-07,
and Ord. 869-08 to Dodson & Associates, Inc. (BOC Res. 114-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Board of Control - Public Safety Department
Hoses, nozzles and fittings, per Ord. 920-70 are rejected (BOC Res. 112-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Board of Control - Public Service Department
Fire Stations 5 and 10, new air breathing compressors and fill stations - per Ord. 490-07
to VIP Electric Company (BOC Res. 111-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
West 3rd lift bridge evaluation, report and evaluation - per Ord. 912-07, Ord. 637-08,
and Ord. 455-09 to TranSystems Corporation of Ohio (BOC Res. 110-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Board of Control - Public Utilities Department
Replacement sewers, construction and installation, repair and rehab of existing sewers
- per C.O. Sec. 129.292 to Terrace Construction Co., Inc. (BOC Res. 109-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Hoses, nozzles and fittings, per Ord. 920-70 are rejected (BOC Res. 112-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Mobile Assets, labor and material to install and repair a system to electronically track
- per Ord. 538-09 - all bids rejected (BOC Res. 108-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Replacement sewers, construction and installation, repair and rehab of existing sewers
- per C.O. Sec. 129.292 to Terrace Construction Co., Inc. (BOC Res. 109-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

Board of Control - Water Pollution Control Division
Replacement sewers, construction and installation, repair and rehab of existing sewers
- per C.O. Sec. 129.292 to Terrace Construction Co., Inc. (BOC Res. 109-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Bellaire Road, 12010, (Ward 19) – Dolores Wagner, owner - appeal granted and adopted on
3/22/10 (Cal. 09-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 119th Street, 1969, (Ward 9) – Little Italy Development, LLC, owner - appeal heard
on 3/22/2010 (Cal. 10-26) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 3162, (Ward 6) – Orealous Caldwell, owner - appeal heard on 3/22/2010
(Cal. 10-27) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lotus Drive, 18300, (Ward 1) – Ervin Simmons, owner, and Janice Talley, tenant - appeal
granted and adopted on 3/22/10 (Cal. 09-258) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ridge Road, 3837, (Ward 15) – WHS Realty Services,Inc., owner and Salim Hasrouni, tenant
- appeal granted and adopted on 3/22/10 (Cal. 10-5) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rowley Avenue, 1104, (Ward 3) – Theodore Polanski, owner - appeal withdrawn on 3/22/10
(Cal. 10-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

393

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

The City Record

30

March 24, 2010

St. Clair Avenue, 16208, (Ward 11) – Najib Chedid, owner - appeal granted and adopted on
3/15/10 (Cal. 10-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Valley Road, 3751, (Ward 15) – Hill Diversified Properties, LLC, owner - appeal heard on
3/22/10 (Cal. 09-237). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
West 11th Street, 2021, (Ward 3) – David F. Perse, owner - appeal granted and adopted on
3/15/10 (Cal. 10-24). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
Franklin Boulevard, 5702, (Ward 15) – Lynnhaven Development Group LLC, owner - appeal to
be heard on 4/6/2010 (Cal. 10-35) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Lake Avenue, 9509, (Ward 16) – St. Thomas Luthern Church, owner - appeal to be heard on
4/6/2010 (Cal. 10-33). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Mayfield Road, 12200, (Ward 9) – Roseanne Passalacqua, owner - appeal to be heard
on 4/6/2010 (Cal. 10-29) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Budget
Appropriations - Year 2010 (O 158-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

City of Cleveland Bids
Allison transmissions (re-manufactured) and repairs - Department of Public Safety
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance - per Ord. 686-07 - bid due April 15, 2010
(advertised 3/24/2010 and 3/31/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Filter rehabilitation project Crown Water Works Plant Project No. 601 - Department
of Public Utilities - Division of Water - per Ord. 270-08 - bid due April 21, 2010
(advertised 3/17/2010 and 3/24/2010). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Labor and materials to repair and maintain plate trucks (rebid) - Department of Public
Utilities - Division of Water Pollution Control - per C.O. Sec. 181.101 - bid due
April 16, 2010 (advertised 3/24/2010 and 3/31/2010) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pool Chemicals - Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties - Division of Recreation
- per C.O. Sec. 181.101 - bid due April 7, 2010 (advertised 3/17/2010 and 3/24/2010) . . . . .
Resurfacing west corporation line to West 150th Street (S.R. 10-8.92 - Lorain Avenue) Department of Public Service - Division of Engineering and Construction - per Ord.
319-09 and 1786-09 - bid due April 14, 2010 (advertised 3/24/2010 and 3/31/2010) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392

City Planning Commission
Design Review District - Euclid-Green (O 167-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Design Review District - East 140th Lake Shore (O 168-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Design Review District - Three Points (O 169-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Design Review District - Five Points (O 170-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John Nepomucene Church, School, Rectory, and Convent - designate as landmark (Ward
12)(O 356-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 65th St., (between Fir Ave. & Madison Ave.)- change Use, Area and Height Disticts Two Family Residential (Ward 15)(O 368-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave. (between E. 12th St., & W. 3rd St.)- designate as “Police Memorial Way” add secondary and honorary designation - Service Department (Ward 03)(R 382-10) . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

391
391
391
391

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379

Clerk of Council
Agreement - Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 362-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374
Amend Ord. No. 1676-09 - NetX Internet - agreement - wireless internet service (O 373-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Cleveland Housing Network
Cleveland Green Homes III - residential rental development (Ward(s)4,6, 7, 9 & 12)(F 385-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Lorain Ave., 9431 - Emerald Alliance VII - residential rental development - (Ward
16)(F 386-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368

Codified Ordinances
Longevity pay - amend Section 171.07 - amend Ord. No. 308-01 (O 89-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Communications
East 167th St., - Beehive Elderly Apartments - residential rental development - CMHA (Ward
01)(F 366-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., 11722 - Miles Pointe - residential rental development - CMHA (Ward 02)(F 371-10) . . .
Cleveland Green Homes III - residential rental development - CHN - (Ward(s)4,6, 7, 9 &
12)(F 385-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 18221 - Village Green Elderly II - residential rental development - (Ward
10)(F 388-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

394

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 368

The City Record

March 24, 2010

31

Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. - residential rental development Fairfax intergenerational Housing Initiative - ( Ward 06)(F 387-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Lorain Ave., 9431 - Emerald Alliance VII - residential rental development - CHN - (Ward
16)(F 386-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
St. John’s Village West (Villages of Central)- scattered sites - single-family residential
development, - Burton, Bell, Carr Development & PIRHL Developers
(Ward 05)(F 372-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368

Community Development
Agreement - RTA - Pilot Neighborhood Transportation Program - Ward(s)16, 17, 18, 19
(NEF)(O 370-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
Federal HOME Grant Program (2010)- Emergency Shelter Grant Program (2010)- Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (2010)- CDBG Year 36 - Grants
(O 131-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Community Development Block Grant Program
Federal HOME Grant Program (2010)- Emergency Shelter Grant Program (2010)- Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (2010)- CDBG Year 36 - Community
Development Department - Grants (O 131-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Concession Agreements
Concession agreements for vendors to sell unique food & beverages to the public in various
public space (O 1548-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Roberto Clemente League - operation of a concession stand at Roberto Clemente Park (O 359-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370

Condolence Resolutions
Celebreeze, Judge Frank D (R 394-10)
Chick, Lynn H. (R 396-10) . . . . . . . . . .
Fields, Ida (R 399-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nagle, Robert (R 398-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Newsome, Doris Marie (R 395-10) . . . .
Thomas, Nellie Mae (R 397-10) . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

368
368
368
368
368
368

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

368
368
368
368
368

Congratulations Resolutions
Corcoran, Shannon (R 402-10). . . .
Hayes, John (R 401-10) . . . . . . . .
Johns, Father Tom (R 403-10) . .
Martin, Mildred Olivia (R 404-10)
McNally, Bonnie (R 400-10) . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

Contracts
Amend Sect(s)2 & 3 of Ord. No. 507-09 - Alcoa - development agreement with Cuy. Hts., &
Independence (O 360-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 915-09 - Miles Shopping Plaza LLC (O 307-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Amend title & Sect. 1 Ord. No. 695-09 - Utilities Dept. - test, evaluate, repair,
or replace roofs (O 87-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
Asphalt for runways, taxiways, ramps, and roadways - renew Contract No. 67928 with The
Shelly Company (O 191-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Brenda Y. Terrell, Ph.D. & Associates - renew Contract No. 67096 business relations consulting services (O 355-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Continental Airlines, Inc. - amend Contract No. 55879 (O 88-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Elevators, escalators and moving sidewalks, - maintain, repair or replacement of units
- renew Contract No. 68074 with Kone, Inc. (O 192-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Employee uniforms and related items - renew Contract Nos. 68337, 68338, and 68339 with
B.P. Britches, Inc., dba Christopher’s Cleveland Uniform, Inc., and Stonewall
Uniform Corporation (O 194-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Engineering design services - renew Contract No. 67714 with Michael Baker Jr., Inc.
(O 189-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 67820 - RW Armstrong Inc. - general
engineering design services (O 302-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 367-380
Group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision
and life insurance coverage - City employees - professional services (O 308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
Heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems - repair and maintain - renew Contract
No. 67927 with Gardiner Service Company (O 190-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Janitorial maintenance and cleaning supplies, - renew Contract No. 68124 with Interline
Brands, Inc., dba AmSan (O 193-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Paved surfaces (remove rubber and any other contaminants from)- renew Contract No. 68360
with Hi-Lite Markings, Inc. (O 195-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380

395

The City Record

32

March 24, 2010

Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority
East 167th St., - Beehive Elderly Apartments - residential rental development (Ward
01)(F 366-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Miles Ave., 11722 - Miles Pointe - residential rental development (Ward 02)(F 371-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368

Easements
Acquire easement from Denision Elderly LLC - A walkway from Denison Ave. into the Reed
Playfield (Ward 03)(O 358-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369

Economic Development Department
Amend Sect(s)2 & 3 of Ord. No. 507-09 - contract with Alcoa - development agreement with
Cuy. Hts., & Independence (O 360-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 915-09 - contract with Miles Shopping Plaza LLC (O 307-10) . . . . . . . . .
Appropriate UDAG funds for NEHST to use as a loan guarantee (O 267-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga Heights Clean Ohio grant application - project located at 6551 Grant Ave. (R 268-10).

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

370
380
381
381

Finance Department
Appropriations - Year 2010 (O 158-10)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Grant
Amend Ord. No. 912-09 - Firefighters Grant (O 361-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buffer Zone Protection Program, 2009 - Ohio Department of Public Safety - Safety Department
(O 10-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Minority Health Grant, 2010 - Sisters of Charity Foundation & Mount Sinai Health
Care Foundation (O 357-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga Heights Clean Ohio grant application - project located at 6551 Grant Ave. (R 268-10).
Federal HOME Grant Program (2010)- Emergency Shelter Grant Program (2010)- Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (2010)- CDBG Year 36 - Community
Development Department (O 131-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Farm Good Neighbor Citizenship Program - State Farm Insurance (O 11-10) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 373
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Health Department
Cleveland Minority Health Grant, 2010 - Grants - Sisters of Charity Foundation & Mount
Sinai Health Care Foundation (O 357-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369

Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Federal HOME Grant Program (2010)- Emergency Shelter Grant Program (2010)- Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (2010)- CDBG Year 36 - Community
Development Department - Grants (O 131-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Insurance
Group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision
and life insurance coverage - City employees - professional services (O 308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Journal Correction
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 67820 - RW Armstrong Inc. - general
engineering design services (O 302-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 367-380

Landmark Commission
St. John Nepomucene Church, School, Rectory, and Convent - designate as landmark - City
Planning Commission (Ward 12)(O 356-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368

Liquor Permits
Bartlett Ave., 15315 - stock application (Ward 01)(F 389-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Croton Ave., 3403 - objection to transfer of Liquor License (Ward 05) (R 378-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Croton Ave., 3403 - transfer of location application (Ward 05) (F 391-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th St., 3258 - withdraw objection to transfer of ownership - repeal Res. 1735-09
(Ward 04)(R 379-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elm St., 2325 - stock application (Ward 03)(F 390-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elm St., 2325 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1089-09 (Ward 03)(R 383-10) . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd., 14300 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1146-09 (Ward 02)(R 384-10)
Lakeside Ave., 3232 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 931-09 (Ward 03)(R 365-10)
Public Sq., 75 (Suite B-100)objection to stock transfer (Ward 03) (R 377-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Rd., 19609 - stock application (Ward 19)(F 393-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St., 3934 - transfer of ownership application (Ward 17) (F 392-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

396

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

378
368
379
379
376
377
368
368

March 24, 2010

The City Record

33

Loans
Appropriate UDAG funds for NEHST to use as a loan guarantee (O 267-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Longevity Pay
Amend Section 171.07 - amend Ord. No. 308-01 (O 89-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Agreement - RTA - Pilot Neighborhood Transportation Program - Ward(s)16, 17, 18, 19
(NEF)(O 370-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency
Amend Ord. No. 319-09 - Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (various infrastructure
projects)(O 367-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Bicycles and pedestrians access on Inner Belt Bridge (R 381-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378
ODOT replace Noise Wall I-90 and 1-71 between West 150th I-71, I-480 split (R 380-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Acquire easement from Denision Elderly LLC - A walkway from Denison Ave. into the Reed
Playfield (Ward 03)(O 358-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
Concession agreements for vendors to sell unique food & beverages to the public in various
public space (O 1548-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Roberto Clemente League - concession agreement - operation of a concession stand at Roberto
Clemente Park (O 359-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370

Personnel Department
Group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision
and life insurance coverage - City employees - professional services (O 308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
Longevity pay - amend Section 171.07 - amend Ord. No. 308-01 (O 89-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Port Control Department
Asphalt for runways, taxiways, ramps, and roadways - renew Contract No. 67928 with The
Shelly Company (O 191-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Brenda Y. Terrell, Ph.D. & Associates - renew Contract No. 67096 business relations consulting services (O 355-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Continental Airlines, Inc. - amend Contract No. 55879 (O 88-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Elevators, escalators and moving sidewalks, - maintain, repair or replacement of units renew Contract No. 68074 with Kone, Inc. (O 192-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Employee uniforms and related items - renew Contract Nos. 68337, 68338, and 68339 with
B.P. Britches, Inc., dba Christopher’s Cleveland Uniform, Inc., and Stonewall
Uniform Corporation (O 194-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Engineering design services - renew Contract No. 67714 with Michael Baker Jr., Inc.
(O 189-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 67820 - RW Armstrong Inc. - general
engineering design services (O 302-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 367-380
Heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems - repair and maintain - renew Contract
No. 67927 with Gardiner Service Company (O 190-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Janitorial maintenance and cleaning supplies, - renew Contract No. 68124 with Interline
Brands, Inc., dba AmSan (O 193-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Paved surfaces (remove rubber and any other contaminants from)- renew Contract No. 68360
with Hi-Lite Markings, Inc. (O 195-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380

Professional Services
Amend Ord. No. 1676-09 - NetX Internet - agreement - wireless internet service
Brenda Y. Terrell, Ph.D. & Associates - renew Contract No. 67096 business relations consulting services (O 355-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clerk of Council - agreement - Solar Systems Networking Inc. (O 362-10) . . . . .
Group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision
and life insurance coverage - City employees (O 308-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

(O 373-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Project Agreements
Amend Ord. No. 319-09 - Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (various infrastructure
projects)(O 367-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

397

The City Record

34

March 24, 2010

Public Hearing Notices
Design
Design
Design
Design

Review
Review
Review
Review

District
District
District
District

-

Euclid-Green (O 167-10) . . . . . . . .
East 140th Lake Shore (O 168-10)
Three Points (O 169-10) . . . . . . . .
Five Points (O 170-10) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

391
391
391
391

Regional Transit Authority
Agreement - Pilot Neighborhood Transportation Program - Ward(s)16, 17, 18, 19
(NEF)(O 370-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Resolution of Support
Additional security, cleaning and maintenance for Downtown Cleveland Improvement District
(R 369-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bicycles and pedestrians access on Inner Belt Bridge (R 381-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga Heights Clean Ohio grant application - project located at 6551 Grant Ave. (R 268-10). .
Holocaust Days of Remembrance on April 11th (R 364-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave. (between E. 12th St., & W. 3rd St.)- designate as “Police Memorial Way” add secondary and honorary designation - City Planning Commission Service Department (Ward 03)(R 382-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ODOT replace Noise Wall I-90 and 1-71 between West 150th I-71, I-480 split (R 380-10) . . . . . . . . . .
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support United States U Visa program (R 374-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting H.R. 4722 - Active Community Transportation Act of 2010 (R 376-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

373
378
381
376

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

379
378
375
376
377

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

373
376
376
377
377

Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Additional security, cleaning and maintenance for Downtown Cleveland Improvement District
(R 369-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holocaust Days of Remembrance on April 11th (R 364-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support United States U Visa program (R 374-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting H.R. 4722 - Active Community Transportation Act of 2010 (R 376-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ty Inc. for Mineral Mining Permit - Skylane Drive (Ward 12)(R 375-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Safety Department
Amend Ord. No. 912-09 - Firefighters Grant (O 361-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 373
Buffer Zone Protection Program, 2009 - Grant - Ohio Department of Public Safety (O 10-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
State Farm Good Neighbor Citizenship Program - Grant - State Farm Insurance (O 11-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Service Department
Amend Ord. No. 319-09 - Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (various infrastructure
projects)(O 367-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374
Lakeside Ave. (between E. 12th St., & W. 3rd St.)- designate as “Police Memorial Way” add secondary and honorary designation - City Planning Commission (Ward
03)(R 382-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379

State of Ohio
Appropriate UDAG funds for NEHST to use as a loan guarantee (O 267-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
Amend Ord. No. 319-09 - Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (various infrastructure
projects)(O 367-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Streets - Name
Lakeside Ave. (between E. 12th St., & W. 3rd St.)- designate as “Police Memorial Way” add secondary and honorary designation - City Planning Commission Service Department (Ward 03)(R 382-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379

Utilities Department
Amend title & Sect. 1 Ord. No. 695-09 - contracts - test, evaluate, repair, or replace
roofs (O 87-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Ward 01
Bartlett Ave., 15315 - stock application - liquor permit (F 389-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chick, Lynn H. - condolence (R 396-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 167th St., - Beehive Elderly Apartments - residential rental development - CMHA
(F 366-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin, Mildred Olivia - congratulations (R 404-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . .

398

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

March 24, 2010

The City Record

35

Ward 02
Amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 915-09 - contract with Miles Shopping Plaza LLC (O 307-10) . .
Kinsman Rd., 14300 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1146-09 - liquor permit
(R 384-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., 11722 - Miles Pointe - residential rental development - CMHA (F 371-10) . . . .
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Ward 03
Acquire easement from Denision Elderly LLC - A walkway from Denision Ave. into the Reed
Playfield (O 358-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Additional security, cleaning and maintenance for Downtown Cleveland Improvement District
(R 369-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bicycles and pedestrians access on Inner Belt Bridge (R 381-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chick, Lynn H. - condolence (R 396-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elm St., 2325 - stock application - liquor permit (F 390-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elm St., 2325 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1089-09 - liquor permit
(R 383-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave. (between E. 12th St., & W. 3rd St.)- designate as “Police Memorial Way” add secondary and honorary designation - City Planning Commission Service Department (R 382-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 3232 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 931-09 - liquor permit
(R 365-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 75 (Suite B-100)objection to stock transfer - liquor permit (R 377-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

373
378
368
368

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 376
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Ward 04
Cleveland Green Homes III - residential rental development - CHN - (Ward(s)4,6, 7, 9 &
12)(F 385-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
East 140th St., 3258 - withdraw objection to transfer of ownership - repeal Res. 1735-09
- liquor permit (R 379-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Ward 05
Chick, Lynn H. - condolence (R 396-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Croton Ave., 3403 - objection to transfer of Liquor License - liquor permit (R 378-10) . . . . .
Croton Ave., 3403 - transfer of location application - liquor permit (F 391-10) . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John’s Village West (Villages of Central)- scattered sites - single-family residential
development, - Burton, Bell, Carr Development & PIRHL Developers (F 372-10) . . .
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Ward 06
Cleveland Green Homes III - residential rental development - CHN - (Ward(s)4,6, 7, 9 &
12)(F 385-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. - residential rental development Fairfax intergenerational Housing Initiative (F 387-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Ward 07
Cleveland Green Homes III - residential rental development - CHN - (Ward(s)4,6, 7, 9 &
12)(F 385-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
Thomas, Nellie Mae - condolence (R 397-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368

Ward 08
Newsome, Doris Marie - condolence (R 395-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Ward 09
Cleveland Green Homes III - residential rental development - CHN - (Ward(s)4,6, 7, 9 &
12)(F 385-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Fields, Ida - condolence (R 399-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Ward 10
Design Review District - Euclid-Green (O 167-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Design Review District - East 140th Lake Shore (O 168-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Design Review District - Three Points (O 169-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391

399

The City Record

36

March 24, 2010

Design Review District - Five Points (O 170-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
Euclid Ave., 18221 - Village Green Elderly II - residential rental development (F 388-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368

Ward 11
Bicycles and pedestrians access on Inner Belt Bridge (R 381-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Celebreeze, Judge Frank D - condolence (R 394-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ODOT replace Noise Wall I-90 and 1-71 between West 150th I-71, I-480 split (R 380-10)
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

378
368
378
375

Ward 12
Amend Sect(s)2 & 3 of Ord. No. 507-09 - contract with Alcoa - development agreement with
Cuy. Hts., & Independence (O 360-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Green Homes III - residential rental development - CHN - (Ward(s)4,6, 7, 9 &
12)(F 385-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga Heights Clean Ohio grant application - project located at 6551 Grant Ave. (R 268-10).
St. John Nepomucene Church, School, Rectory, and Convent - designate as landmark - City
Planning Commission (O 356-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ty Inc. for Mineral Mining Permit - Skylane Drive (R 375-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377

Ward 13
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Ward 14
Roberto Clemente League - concession agreement - operation of a concession stand at Roberto
Clemente Park (O 359-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Ward 15
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
W. 65th St., (between Fir Ave. & Madison Ave.)- change Use, Area and Height Disticts Two Family Residential - City Planning Commission (O 368-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370

Ward 16
Agreement - RTA - Pilot Neighborhood Transportation Program - Ward(s)16, 17, 18, 19
(NEF)(O 370-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
Lorain Ave., 9431 - Emerald Alliance VII - residential rental development - CHN (F 386-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Ward 17
Agreement - RTA - Pilot Neighborhood Transportation Program - Ward(s)16, 17, 18, 19
(NEF)(O 370-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
West 117th St., 3934 - transfer of ownership application - liquor permit (F 392-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368

Ward 18
Agreement - RTA - Pilot Neighborhood Transportation Program - Ward(s)16, 17, 18, 19
(NEF)(O 370-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McNally, Bonnie - congratulations (R 400-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hayes, John - congratulations (R 401-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corcoran, Shannon - congratulations (R 402-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johns, Father Tom - congratulations (R 403-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ODOT replace Noise Wall I-90 and 1-71 between West 150th I-71, I-480 split (R 380-10) .
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . . . . . . . . . .
Holocaust Days of Remembrance on April 11th (R 364-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

375
368
368
368
368
378
375
376

Ward 19
Agreement - RTA - Pilot Neighborhood Transportation Program - Ward(s)16,
(NEF)(O 370-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nagle, Robert - condolence (R 398-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Rd., 19609 - stock application - liquor permit ( F.393-10) 368
Support “Earth Hour 2010” - March 27, 2010 (8:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.) (R 363-10) . . .

17, 18, 19
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Zoning
W. 65th St., (between Fir Ave. & Madison Ave.)- change Use, Area and Height Disticts Two Family Residential - City Planning Commission (Ward 15)(O 368-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370

400

