The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Sixth, Two Thousand and Ten

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name
Terrell H. Pruitt
Zachary Reed
Joe Cimperman
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Jeffrey D. Johnson
Kevin Conwell
Eugene R. Miller
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Kevin J. Kelley
Brian J. Cummins
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Rules of Council
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
4
4
11
12
12
13
13
13
13
13
13
13

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman..............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker, Interim Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – _________, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Omayra G. Feliciano, Acting Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair; Laura
M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey, Allan
Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12B
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Michelle D. Earley
12A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
14B
14C
Judge Anita Laster Mays
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
13D
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr.
13B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
15C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2010

Vol. 97

No. 5013

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 4, 2010
The City Record

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Conwell,
Cummins,
Dow,
Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 2-10.
Frank G. Jackson,
ceived.

Mayor.

Re-

OATH OF OFFICE
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
The Oath of Office was administered to the 2010-2013 Council by the
Honorable Ronald B. Adrine, Administrative and Presiding Judge of
Cleveland Municipal Court.
File No. 3-10.
January 4, 2010
Ms. Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
City of Cleveland

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Cimperman,
Services
Committee:
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 4, 2010
The meeting of the Council was
called to order by Clerk of Council
Pro Tempore Sandra Franklin.
Council Members — Elect present:
Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J.
Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present was Mayor Frank G.
Jackson.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Reverend Dr.
Robin E. Hedgman of Bethany
Christian Church. Colors presented
by Cleveland Police Honor Guard.
Pledge of Allegiance.
File No. 1-10.
January 4, 2010

TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

Sandra Franklin
First Assistant Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Ms. Franklin:
You are hereby requested to serve
as Clerk of Council Pro Tempore for
the purpose of calling the January
4, 2010 Council meeting to order and
until such time as the Council
selects a Clerk of Council.
Your assistance is appreciated.
Sincerely,
Martin J. Sweeney,
Council President
Received.

3

Dear Clerk Britt:
Pursuant to Section 194 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland, I
Sandra Franklin, Clerk of Council
Pro Tempore, hereby certify to you
that there has been filed in the
Office of the Clerk of Council, the
Oaths of Office, subscribed by the
following Council Members:
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward
Ward

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—

Terrell H. Pruitt
Zachary Reed
Joe Cimperman
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
TJ Dow
Jeffrey D. Johnson
Kevin Conwell
Eugene Miller
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Kevin J. Kelley
Brian J. Cummins
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Very truly yours,
Sandra Franklin
Clerk of Council Pro Tempore
Received.
ELECTION OF TEMPORARY
CHAIRMAN
Council Member Eugene Miller
moved, pursuant to Rule 9, that
Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland serve as Temporary Chairman
for the purpose of organizing the
Council. Council Member Anthony
Brancatelli seconded the motion.
Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson
moved that nominations for Temporary Chairman be closed. A roll call
ensued. Council Member Phyllis E.

The City Record

4
Cleveland received 19 votes. Those
who
voted
for
Council
Member
Cleveland: Council Members Brady,
Brancantelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney, Westbrook, and Zone.
Council Member Cleveland assumed the Chair and thanked the Council Members for giving her the
opportunity to serve as Temporary
Chairman.
ELECTION OF
COUNCIL PRESIDENT
The Temporary Chairman stated
the next order of business was the
election of the President of Council.
Council Member Kevin J. Kelley
moved that Council Member Martin
J. Sweeney serve as President of
Council for the 2010-2013 Council
Term. Council Member Terrell H.
Pruitt seconded the motion. Council
Member Mamie J. Mitchell moved
that the nomination for Council
President be closed. A roll called
ensued. The Temporary Chairman
instructed the members of Council
to state the name of the candidate,
Martin J. Sweeney, when responding
to the roll call and requested the
Clerk to call the roll call on the election of President of Council.
After completion of the roll call,
the Clerk announced that Council
Member Sweeney received 19 votes.
Those who voted for Council Member
Sweeney
were:
Council
Members
Brady, Brancantelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J.
Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Council Member Martin J. Sweeney,
having received a majority of vote of
all the members elected to Council,
is the duly elected President of Council for the 2010-2013 term.
The
Temporary
Chairman
requested Council Member Martin J.
Sweeney’s
family
to
escort
the
newly elected Council President to
the Chair. The Honorable Judge
Gerald F. Sweeney (Retired), of
Cleveland Municipal Court administered the oath of office to Council
Member Martin J. Sweeney, the
newly elected President of Council.
Council President Sweeney assumed
the Chair and thanked the Council
Members for giving him the opportunity to serve as President of Council of 2010-2013 term, introduced is
family and gave brief remarks.

January 6, 2010

onded the motion. Council Member
Martin J. Keane moved that the
nomination for City Clerk, Clerk of
Council be closed. Council President
Sweeney instructed the members of
Council to state the name of the candidate,
Patricia
J.
Britt,
when
responding to the roll call and
requested the Clerk to call the roll
on the election of City Clerk, Clerk
of Council.
After completion of the roll call,
it was announced that Patricia J.
Britt received 19 votes. Those voting
for Patricia J. Britt were: Council
Members Brady, Brancantelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson,
Keane,
Kelley,
Miller,
Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Sweeney,
Westbrook, and Zone.
The Honorable Kathleen O’Malley,
Judge Cuyahoga County Court of
Common Pleas, Division of Domestic
Relations, administered the oath of
office to Patricia J. Britt, the newly
elected City Clerk, Clerk of Council.
Council Clerk Britt assumed the
duties of her office and thanked the
Council Members for giving her the
opportunity to serve as City Clerk,
Clerk of Council of the 2010-2013
term.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 5-10.
Patricia J. Britt, City Clerk, Clerk
of Council. Received.
MOTION
Council Member TJ Dow moved
that the Rules of Council for the
2006-2009 Council term prevail for
the 2010-2013 Council Term until
such time as the Council President
convene the Rules Committee. Council Member Kevin J. Kelley seconded the motion. Without objection,
motion approved.
RULES OF COUNCIL
File No. 6-10.
Rules of Council
2010-2013. Received.

for

the

years

Personal expressions were addressed to the body by the Council
President, Council Members and the
Council Clerk.
The Council Meeting adjourned at
9:24 p.m. to meet Monday, January
11, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 4-10.
Martin J. Sweeney, President of
Council. Received.
ELECTION OF COUNCIL CLERK
Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland moved that in order to expedite
the orderly organization of the 2010
– 2013 Council proceed with the election of the City Clerk and placed in
nomination the name Patricia J.
Britt as City Clerk, Clerk of Council for the 2010-2013 Council term.
Council Member Jay Westbrook sec-

Patrica J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

4

RULES OF COUNCIL
Rules of Order
Governing the Council of the
City of Cleveland
2010-2013 [January 4, 2010]
The following rules of order shall
govern the procedures of the City
Council and the conduct of its members.
I. MEETINGS: PLACE, TIME OF
CONVENING, QUORUM, ORDER
OF BUSINESS
Rule 1. Meetings — Place. All
meetings of the Council shall be
held in the Council Chamber in the
City Hall, unless otherwise ordered
by the Council.
Rule 2. Meetings — Public. All
meetings of the Council or committees thereof shall be public, and
upon request of any citizen desiring
to be heard on any matter, then
under consideration by the Council,
the Council may, on motion, resolve
itself into a Committee of the Whole
and hear such citizen at such time
and for such period as Council may
determine. Persons desiring to be
heard by any committee of Council
on any matter then under consideration may, by consent of such committee, be given an opportunity to
be heard thereon. All Rules of Council minutes and records of the Council shall be open to the public at all
reasonable times.
Rule 3. Regular Meetings. After
the Council has been organized pursuant to Section 28 of the Charter,
regular meetings of the Council
shall be held in the Council Chamber every Monday evening at 7:00
o’clock P.M., unless otherwise ordered by motion, resolution or ordinance. Whenever the regular meeting falls on a legal holiday or a special election day — or the day preceding a legal holiday or primary or
other election day, the meeting shall
be held on a day to be fixed by the
Council.
Rule 4. Summer Schedule. During
the months of July and August, the
Council shall be on summer schedule and shall meet at such times as
shall be set forth in the resolution
of Council establishing such schedule.
Rule 5. Special Meetings. Special
meetings may be called at any time
by the Mayor, the President of Council, or any five members upon at
least twelve (12) hours written
notice to each member of the Council served personally on each member or left at his usual place of residence; provided, however, that no
such notice need be served on any
Councilmember present at a meeting
of Council at which the President of
Council may give oral notice of the
time and purpose of a special meeting. Any such notice shall state the
subjects to be considered at the
meeting, and no other subjects shall
be there considered.
Rule 6. Quorum; Professionalism.
A majority of all the members elected to Council shall be a quorum to

January 6, 2010
do business, but a less number may
adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of absent members in the manner and under such
penalties as shall be prescribed by
these rules. All members shall conduct themselves professionally and
shall attend all official meetings of
Council in appropriate professional
attire.
Rule 7. Order of Business. The
business of all regular meetings of
the Council shall be transacted in
the following order, unless the Council by a two-thirds vote, shall suspend the rules and change the order.
1. Roll call of members.
2. Prayer.
3. Pledge of Allegiance.
4. Disposal of the journal of the
preceding meeting.
5. Reports and communications
from the Mayor.
6. Reports and communications
from departments, commissions and
other public officers.
7. Other communications, petitions
and memorials.
8. Reports of standing committees.
9. Reports of special committees.
10. Introduction of ordinances and
resolutions.
11. Second reading of ordinances
and resolutions.
12. Third reading of ordinances
and resolutions.
13. Reading and passage of emergency ordinances and resolutions.
14. Miscellaneous business shall
be permitted at the discretion of the
chair.
15. Report of the clerk with reference to absence of members.
16. Adjournment.
The presiding officer may, at any
time without objection of the members of Council, permit a member to
introduce an ordinance, resolution or
motion out of the regular order provided, however, if an objection is
made, a two-thirds vote of all members elected to Council shall be
required to permit such introduction
out of the regular order.
Rule 8. The Calendar. It shall be
the duty of the Clerk to have set
aside conspicuously in The City
Record a portion to be titled “The
Calendar. The following measures
will be on their passage at the next
meeting.” Under this title the Clerk
shall arrange, and have printed in
consecutive order, by title all ordinances and resolutions which are on
for passage at the next meeting of
Council. In the event that any such
ordinances or resolutions have been
amended, the full text of the operative sections of such ordinance or resolution, as amended, shall be published in addition to the title thereof.
When action upon any measure appearing upon the Calendar is postponed to a day certain, such measure
shall be considered on said day to
which postponed whether or not it appears upon the Calendar of said day.
II. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
OF COUNCIL
Rule 9. Presiding Officer. The
President of Council, and in the
President’s absence the President of
Council pro tempore, shall preside

The City Record
over the meetings of the Council. In
the absence of the President of
Council, the Majority Leader shall
serve as the President of Council
pro tempore; in the absence of both
the President of Council and the
Majority Leader, the Majority Whip
shall serve as the President of Council pro tempore. In the absence of
the President of Council, the Majority Leader and the Majority Whip,
the City Clerk shall call the Council to order; and if, after the roll call
is called a quorum shall be present,
the Council shall choose one of its
members President of Council pro
tempore. The President of Council
pro tempore shall preside until the
President of Council appears, but in
no event beyond such meeting, and
shall discharge all the duties and be
clothed with all the powers of the
President of Council as such presiding officer during the President of
Council’s absence. The Presiding
Officer shall call all meetings of the
Council to order at the hour appointed and shall proceed with the order
of business. If a quorum be present,
the Presiding Officer shall give the
members an opportunity for correcting the journal of the previous meeting, a copy of which shall be placed
on the desk of each member of the
Council. In the absence of any objections or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved. The Presiding
Officer shall preserve order and
decorum, prevent personalities or
the impugning of members’ motives,
confine members in debate to the
question
under
discussion,
shall
decide all points of order subject to
an appeal to the Council, and shall
appoint all standing committees and
such select committees as may be
authorized by Council from time to
time, except in those cases where
the
resolution
authorizing
such
select committees specifically names
the membership thereof.
Rule 10. Members Presiding. The
President of the Council during any
meeting thereof may name any
member to perform the duties of the
chair; but such substitution shall not
extend beyond such meeting.
Rule 11. The Vote Necessary for
Election of President and Clerk. No
candidate for President or Clerk of
Council shall be declared elected
unless the candidate shall have
received a majority vote of all members elected to Council.
Rule 11-1. Roll Call upon Election
of President, and Filling Vacancies
in the Membership of Council. Upon
the roll call for the election of President of Council, Clerk of Council, or
for filling any vacancy in the membership of Council, each member
shall respond by stating the name
of the candidate of his choice eligible for such office or appointment,
which
candidate
shall
not
be
required to be a person duly nominated and whose nomination has
been duly seconded, provided, however, that no member shall be
excused from voting hereon except
by unanimous consent.
Rule 12. The City Clerk. The
Council shall choose a Clerk and
such other officers and employees

5

5
as may be deemed necessary and fix
their compensation. The Clerk shall
keep the record of the Council, and
the Clerk shall be the editor of The
City Record. The Clerk shall keep a
proper file of all papers and documents which are a part of the transactions of the Council, of meetings
of committees and all orders of the
Council,
and
shall
make
such
records available to the public. The
Clerk shall be secretary to all committees, but may assign an assistant
as secretary to any committee.
When directed by any committee the
Clerk shall cause to be kept minutes
of each meeting of such committee
that shall be kept in record form
and be made available for public
inspection. The record of committee
meetings may be kept in the form
of loose sheet records and need not
be printed in The City Record nor
copied in any other book, except
that the Clerk shall cause to be
printed in The City Record attendance roll calls of committee meetings. In addition, the Clerk shall
report to Council the absence of
members from Council meetings and
shall perform such other and further
duties as may from time to time by
Charter, statute or ordinance be required of the Clerk.
Rule 12-1. Committee on Council
Personnel and Operations. Not later
than the fourth meeting of the Council after its organization, the President of Council shall appoint six (6)
members to a Committee on Council
Personnel and Operations. In addition to the appointed members, the
President of Council shall also be
member of the committee. The committee shall consider personnel and
operational issues of Council, such
as staffing levels, hiring of staff,
and technical and operational matters pertaining to the offices of
Council. Upon a vacancy in Council’s
staff, the Clerk of Council shall notify all members of such vacancy and
the President of Council shall convene a meeting of the Committee on
Council Personnel and Operations to
discuss the vacancy. Prior to filling
any staffing vacancy or newly created position, the Clerk of Council
shall forward the name of the proposed employee to be hired and the
position to be filled to the members
of Council. Within thirty (30) days
following the completion of the
employee’s first ninety days of employment, the committee shall report
its recommendation on retaining the
employee to Council for a roll call
vote of the Council for which a
majority vote must be received.
Rule 12-2. The City Record. The
City Clerk, as editor of The City
Record, shall see that the following
rules are observed in the preparation and introduction of ordinances
and resolutions and in the editing
and printing of The City Record.
(a) The title of all ordinances and
resolutions shall be confined to a
brief statement of the subject matter of the bill and shall be printed
in bold face type.
(b) Preambles or “whereasas” in
ordinances and resolutions shall be
restricted to one emergency pream-

The City Record

6
ble required by the Charter, except
where a whereas is an essential
part of the ordinance or resolution.
(c) Ordinances of a general or
permanent nature shall, in their
preparation, be divided into short
sections, wherever practicable, in
order to permit amendments being
made without printing so much of
the original ordinance.
(d) The practice of introducing
resolutions of condolence and congratulatory
resolutions
shall
be
recorded by number and reserved
for cases of death of outstanding citizens or occasion of great civic
importance. In lieu of such resolution of condolence the Clerk shall
have prepared a suitable memorial
which shall be sent to the relatives
of the deceased and The City Record
shall contain the request of the
member of Council for such memorial and the fact that such memorial
has been sent.
(e) The minutes and proceedings
of administrative boards shall be
prepared in abstract form and be
printed in six (6)-point type in The
City Record.
(f) Once each year, there shall be
prepared for distribution or printed
in The City Record a cumulative
subject index covering the proceedings of the Council.
Rule 13. Sergeant-at-Arms. The
Council shall appoint a Sergeant-atArms who shall be in attendance at
all
meetings
of
Council.
The
Sergeant-at-Arms, under the direction of the presiding officer, shall
preserve order in the Council Chamber and adjoining rooms, and in the
manner to be prescribed by ordinance shall compel the attendance
of absent members.
III. COMMITTEES OF COUNCIL
Rule 14. Standing Committees. Not
later than the fourth meeting of the
Council after its organization, the
President of Council shall appoint
one
(1)
standing
committee
of
eleven members; four (4) standing
committees of nine (9) members
each; and six (6) standing committees of seven (7) members each of
whom the first named members
shall be chair and the second named
shall be vice-chair. All committee
appointments, made under this Rule,
including that of chair and vicechair, the vice-chair shall preside
until the chair appears, and shall
discharge all the duties and be
clothed with all the powers of the
chair during such absence. In the
absence of the chair and the vicechair and a quorum being present,
a temporary chair shall be selected
by a majority vote of the members
present who shall preside until the
chair or vice-chair appears and the
temporary chair shall discharge all
the duties and be clothed with all
the powers of the chair during such
absence.
A. The eleven member committee
and its subject matter is as follows:

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, to
which shall be referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to finances, indebtedness, appropriations, the payment
of monies not provided for by previous legislation, taxation and all
matters pertaining to the Departments of Finance, Law and Personnel, the standardization of salaries
and wages, union agreements, civil
service, the pensioning of employees
and the sale, lease or purchase of
real estate.
B. The nine member committees
and the subject matters that shall
be referred to them shall be as follows:
a.
COMMITTEE
ON
PUBLIC
UTILITIES, to which are referred
all ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to the City’s
water
supply,
sewage
disposal,
municipal electrical light plant and
all matters pertaining to the Department of Public Utilities, and all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to telecommunications, rates to be paid by the City
to the public utility for street lighting or other utility services and to
existing
or
proposed
franchises
including railway and railroad operations and the Regional Sewer District.
b. COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SERVICE, to which shall be referred all
ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to streets and
street uses, street and sewer improvements, switch track and pipe
lines, elimination of grade crossings, street cleaning, waste collection
and
disposal,
bridges
and
underpasses, taxes and assessments
for sidewalks and street improvements, all banners across streets
and all matters pertaining to the
Department of Public Service.
c. COMMITTEE ON COMMUNITY
AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT,
to which shall be referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to the redevelopment
of blighted areas, the rehabilitation
and conservation of property, the
alleviation of the housing shortage
and alum clearance, economic and
industrial development, the Land
Reutilization Program and all matters relating to the Departments of
Community Development and Economic Development.
d.
COMMITTEE
ON
PUBLIC
SAFETY, to which shall be referred
all ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to police, fire,
and emergency medical services and
matters pertaining to the Boxing
and Wrestling Commission, to the
enforcement of the traffic code and
off street parking and to inspection
of buildings, and all matters pertaining to the Department of Public
Safety, and to tag days.
C. The seven member committees
and the subject matters that shall be
referred to them shall be as follows:
a. COMMITTEE ON CITY PLANNING, to which shall be referred all
ordinances, resolutions and other

6

January 6, 2010
matters relating to city planning,
the City Planning Commission and
matters relating to zoning.
b.
COMMITTEE
ON
HEALTH
AND HUMAN SERVICES, to which
shall be referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to public health, public charities, direct and work relief, city correctional and charitable institutions;
and all matters pertaining to the
Departments of Public Health and
Welfare,
Human
Resources
and
Aging, and all matters pertaining to
health, sanitation, unemployment,
job training, air pollution control,
lake and river pollution, smoke
abatement and nuisances.
c. COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION, to which shall be referred all
ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to county, state
and federal legislation affecting the
city annexations, redistricting, charter amendments and all initiative,
referendum and recall petitions; all
matters relating to courts; ordinances relating to licenses and
those imposing fines, penalties, forfeitures or imprisonment, printing
and advertising.
d. COMMITTEE ON AVIATION
AND TRANSPORTATION, to which
shall be referred all ordinances, resolutions and other matters pertaining to the municipally-owned airports and any and all matters concerning aviation; and all ordinances,
resolutions and other matters pertaining to bridges, harbors, river
and lake travel, public transportation and bus, limousine and taxicab
operations and all matters pertaining to the Department of Port Control, the Regional Transit Authority
and the Port Authority.
e.
COMMITTEE
ON
PUBLIC
PARKS, PROPERTY AND RECREATION, to which shall be referred
all ordinances, resolutions and other
matters pertaining to public parks,
public
places,
public
recreation,
playgrounds and public beaches; to
all public buildings not specifically
related to or belonging to some
department or division, including
the City Hall, Public Auditorium,
the Public Stadium, the city markets, and golf courses and cemeteries; to the purchase or sale of all
property not specifically referred to
another committee of this Council
except
for
the
Committee
on
Finance, and all matters pertaining
to the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
f.
COMMITTEE
ON
EMPLOYMENT,
AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION
AND TRAINING, to which shall be
referred all ordinances, resolutions
and other matters pertaining to the
formulation and monitoring of job
participation linkage for publicly
funded development projects; the
oversight of affirmative action policies, certification of minority and
female business enterprises, and
contract compliance within the affirmative action goals of the City; and
the formulation of job training policies and performance monitoring of
job training contracts.

January 6, 2010
Rule 14-1. Approval of Council of
Appointments by Mayor. Whenever
the approval of Council is required
for appointments by the Mayor, the
President of Council, upon request
of the Mayor for approval of any
appointment, shall forthwith appoint
a select committee of five (5) members to which shall be referred the
name of each person whose appointment is submitted for approval of
Council. The select committee shall
report to Council its recommendation thereon. Thereupon Council, as
part of the appropriate order of business, shall proceed to vote upon the
approval of each appointment; the
question being “Shall the Council
approve the appointment by the
Mayor?” If a majority of all the
members elected to Council vote
aye, the Council shall approve such
appointment.
Rule 14-2. Member Pro Tempore.
In the event of the absence of a
member from a published scheduled
committee, the Council President,
upon the request of the chair of the
committee, may appoint a Councilmember to serve as a member pro
tempore for purposes of that committee meeting. The appointment by
the Council President of the member
to that committee shall expire upon
completion of that committee meeting. Upon appointing a member pro
tempore, the Council President shall
notify the members of Council of the
appointment and shall cause such
appointment to be reflected in the
City Record.
Rule 14-3. Removal of Members
from Committees. The President of
Council, may for cause at any time,
remove and replace any member or
members of any standing committee
established under Rule 14 or from
any special committee or committees.
Rule 15. Committee Meetings. A
majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. Each
committee shall hold its regular
meetings at the time and place fixed
in the schedule, as prepared by the
President of Council and Clerk of
Council in conference with the
chairs of the several committees.
Rule 15-1. Meeting. A committee
meeting schedule shall be published
by the Clerk. Should the chair of a
committee find it necessary to hold
the meeting at another time and
place, the chair shall cause notice
thereof to be given and posted at
least twenty-four (24) hours before
the new time fixed for the meeting.
All committee meetings shall be
open, and a record of the attendance
of members of the committee and
the action taken there, shall be kept
by the secretary of the committee in
a record provided for that purpose.
Such record shall be kept on file
with the Clerk of Council and open
to public inspection as other public
records. No legislation shall be
amended while in committee and it
shall be the duty of the committee
to
recommend
to
Council
the
approval, disapproval or amendment
of any legislation pending before
the committee. A majority of the

The City Record
members of a committee shall be
necessary for the recommendation
of approval, disapproval or amendment of any legislation pending
before
a
committee.
All
other
motions shall require only a majority vote of the members of committee present.
Rule 15-2. Councilmember Absences. Each absence of a committee member, not authorized by the
chair
for
good
cause,
or
the
absence of the chair, not authorized by the President of Council
for good cause, shall be deemed a
violation of the Rules of Council
under Section 29 of the Charter,
punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
unauthorized absence. For the purpose of this Subsection 15(b), but
not for purposes of voting on recommendations to legislation, a committee member or chair thereof
shall also be deemed absent if a
committee member or chair reports
to the committee meeting later
than fifteen (15) minutes after the
scheduled time for the commencement of said meeting or when after
the commencement of said meeting
leaves the meeting, except in case
of necessity or emergency, without
the authority of the chair or acting
chair. Absence of a member of a
committee from three (3) consecutive meetings, unless authorized by
the chair of such committee, may
upon the recommendation of such
committee, cause the removal of
such member from such committee
by the President of Council.
Rule 15-3. Committee Room Seating. Seats at the table in the committee room shall be reserved for
members of the committee, the
Mayor and administrative officials
having business before the committee, members of Council not members
of
the
committee,
persons
specifically invited by the chair or
by a vote of the committee, reporters,
representatives
of
civic
organizations
and
of
organized
labor, and it shall be the duty of the
Clerk of committees to see to it that
the foregoing precedence of seating
is strictly followed.
Rule 15-4. Rules of Committees.
Except in case of obvious inconsistency or inapplicability, committee
hearings shall be governed by the
rules applicable to Council proceedings.
Rule 16. Reports. No ordinance,
resolution, petition, or other matters referred to a committee for
action shall be approved or disapproved and reported out until it
shall have first been considered at
a
committee
meeting
regularly
called as provided for herein and
no committee shall consider or hold
a hearing on any proposed legislation until it has been introduced in
Council and referred to the committee. The chair, upon motion of
any member that shall not require
a second, shall put the question of
the recommendation of approval or
of approval when amended. If a
majority of the members of the
committee vote affirmatively, such
legislation shall be reported forth-

7

7
with to Council as “Recommended
for Passage”, but if a majority of
the members of the committee vote
negatively on such question, such
legislation shall be reported forthwith to Council as a recommendation of adversal of such legislation.
The vote on all matters before the
committee shall be recorded in the
minutes of the committee meeting.
When a majority of a committee
has reported, recommending or not
recommending the passage, adoption or approval of the legislation
under consideration, the minority
may present a minority report. All
such reports shall be in writing
and signed by the members of the
committee voting in favor of or
against the report.
Rule 17. Committee of the Whole.
Upon declaration by the Council
President without objection or by
motion of a Councilmember supported by a majority vote of Council, the
Council shall resolve itself into a
Committee of the Whole for the purpose of hearing from a person who
is not a member of the Council, or
for the purpose of considering business generally, or for the purpose
stated in the motion. When the
Council shall decide to go into Committee of the Whole, the regular
officers shall continue to serve,
without objection, otherwise the
Council shall appoint a Chair to preside, and the presiding officer of the
Council shall leave the chair. The
rules of Council, in so far as practicable, shall be observed in the
Committee of the Whole; however, a
roll call of ayes and nays shall not
be in order.
Rule 17-1. Joint Committee. When
it is desired that legislation shall
be considered by two or more
standing committees jointly, a reference may be made by the President of Council to a joint committee comprised of the membership of
said standing committees, which
shall operate as a single committee. A quorum of a joint committee
shall consist of a majority of the
members thereof, counting membership in each committee separately, so that a member of each or
two or more committees constituting such joint committee shall be
counted once for each committee on
which he/she is a member. A
majority vote, similarly counted,
shall be required for action by such
joint committee. The President of
Council shall determine the chair
of the joint committee from the
chair of the standing committees
that make up the joint committee.
Rule 17-2. Subcommittee. When
determined to be in furtherance of
the legislative process, the chair of
a standing committee and the President of Council may designate certain members of said standing committee to form a subcommittee
thereof for the purpose of examining such matters as are identified
by the chair and President at the
time the subcommittee is formed.
At the completion of its work, the
subcommittee shall report its findings to the entire standing committee or, in the discretion of the
President of Council, the entire
Council.

The City Record

8
IV. DUTIES, PRIVILEGES AND
DECORUM OF MEMBERS
Rule 18. Roll Call of Council.
Every member shall be seated at the
time of roll call, otherwise the member shall not be recorded as present
except upon order of Council. The
Clerk shall publish in The City
Record the names of the members
present and absent.
Rule 19. Duty to Vote. Every member present shall vote on all questions upon the call of the yeas, and
nays, unless excused by the unanimous consent of the Council; except
that no member shall vote on any
question in which they are financially interested or which in any
way involves personal or private
rights. Any member present, unless
so excused, or excepted as above,
who refuses to vote upon any question relating to the city government,
upon which the member may vote,
when the yeas and nays are being
taken shall be guilty of contempt of
the Council, and may, for such contempt, be censured by a majority
vote of the Council or may be
expelled from the Council by a vote
of two-thirds of all the members of
the Council pursuant to Section 29
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland.
Rule 20. Yeas and Nays. On the
passage of every ordinance or resolution, and on the appointment of
every officer, the vote shall be
taken by yeas and nays, entered in
full upon the records and published
in the official journal. On any other
question, the yeas and nays shall be
entered upon the record on the
request of any member. Upon the
call of the yeas and nays, the Clerk
shall call the names of members
alphabetically and record the vote.
Rule 21. Change of Vote. Before
the announcement of the vote on
any question, the Clerk shall read
the vote of each member so taken
upon the demand of any member, at
which time any member on account
of error or for any other reason may
change his/her vote; but no member
shall be permitted to change his/her
vote as recorded after the roll call
has been verified and the result
declared.
Rule 22. Recording of Vote of
Absent Member. Any member, having been unavoidably absent, may
at the next meeting be permitted to
have their vote recorded upon any
question acted upon during such
absence; provided such vote shall
not change the result; and provided
further that such member shall not
be entitled to move a reconsideration of the question to be voted
upon.
Rule 23. Right of Floor. When any
member is about to address the
Council the member shall rise and
respectfully address the presiding
officer, and when recognized by the
chair shall confine any comments to
the question under debate, avoid
personalities
and
refrain
from
impugning the motives of any other
member’s argument or vote. When
two or more members ask recogni-

tion at the same time, the presiding
officer shall name the member who
is first to speak and the exercise of
such discretion by the presiding officer shall not be subject to appeal
under Rule 26.
Rule
24.
Time
Limitation
of
Speaking.
No
member
shall
be
allowed to speak for a longer time
than 4 minutes at any one time
without the permission of Council.
No member shall speak more than
once on the same legislation until
every other member desiring to
speak on that legislation shall have
had an opportunity to do so. Neither
the Mayor nor any director may
speak longer than 4 minutes upon
the same motion, ordinance or question without the consent of Council.
Rule 25. Members Called to Order.
If any member in speaking or otherwise transgresses the rules of the
Council, the President shall call the
offending member to order. The
member so called to order shall
immediately take his seat unless
permitted
by
the
President
to
explain. Any member may, by raising the point of order, call the attention of the President to such transgression. The President, without
debate, shall decide the point of
order. Every such decision of the
President shall be subject to appeal
to the Council upon motion with a
second.
Rule 26. Right of Appeal. Any
member may appeal to the Council
from a ruling of the presiding officer. The member making the appeal
may briefly state the reason for the
same, and the presiding officer may
briefly explain the ruling; but there
shall be no debate on the appeal and
no other member shall participate in
the discussion. The presiding officer
shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the chair be sustained?” If a majority of the members present vote aye, the ruling of
the chair is sustained; otherwise it
is overruled.
Rule 27. Member May Read from
Books, etc. Any member while discussing a question, may read from
books, papers or documents any
matter pertinent to the subject
under consideration without asking
leave; provided, however, that such
reading shall be subject to and
included within the time limitation
prescribed in Rule 24.
Rule 28. Division of Question. If
the question contains two or more
divisible propositions, the presiding
officer may, and upon request of a
member, shall divide the same; but
a motion to strike out a provision
and insert a substitute is not divisible.
Rule 29. Personal Privilege. Any
member may rise to explain a matter personal to the member, and on
stating that it is a matter of personal privilege, the member shall be
recognized by the President, but
shall not discuss a question or issue
in such explanation. Such explanation shall not consume more than 2
minutes of time unless extended by
consent of the Council. Matters of

8

January 6, 2010
personal privilege shall yield only
to a motion to recess or adjourn.
Rule 30. No Person, Other Than
the Clerk and the Clerk’s Assistants,
Shall Be Permitted at the Clerk’s
Desk While the Yeas and Nays are
Being Taken. No person, other than
the Clerk and the Clerk’s assistants,
shall be permitted at the Clerk’s
desk while the yeas and nays are
being taken.
V. MOTIONS
Rule
31.
Purpose
and
Form.
Motions shall be used only to expedite the orderly transaction at the
business of Council and shall not be
substituted for resolutions or ordinances. The form of all motions
shall be “I move that” followed by
the substance of the motion. No second shall be required for any motion
except as specifically provided for
in a rule, but upon demand of any
member any motion shall be withdrawn by the maker before it has
been amended or voted upon. When
a motion is made the presiding officer shall state it before any debate
shall be in order. All motions that
have been entertained by the President of Council shall be entered
upon the minutes.
Rule 32. Precedence of Motions.
When a question is before the Council no motion shall be entertained
except the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

To adjourn.
To fix the hour of adjournment.
For the previous question.
To lay on the table.
To postpone to a day certain.
To postpone indefinitely.
To refer to a committee.
To amend.

These motions shall have precedence in the order indicated. The
motion to adjourn and the motion
for the previous question, shall be
put to a vote without debate; the motion to fix the hour of adjournment
shall be debatable only as to the
time of such adjournment; and all
other motions shall be debatable.
Rule 33. The Previous Question.
The motion for the previous question shall require a majority vote of
all members elected to Council; shall
be considered only once; may be
renewed after intervening business;
shall take precedence over all debatable questions and shall be in order
to prevent amendment of undebatable questions. When the previous
question is moved and seconded by
one other member, it shall be put as
follows: “Shall the main question be
now put?” There shall be no further
amendment or debate but pending
amendments shall be put in their
order before the main question. If
the question, “Shall the main question be now put?” be decided in the
negative, the main question remains
before the Council.
Rule 34. Motion to Lay on the
Table. The motion to lay on the
table shall dispose finally of the legislation against which it is invoked
but a motion to lay a pending
amendment to an ordinance or reso-

January 6, 2010
lution on the table shall not carry
the ordinance or resolution with it.
A motion to lay on the table shall
require a majority vote of all members elected to Council.
Rule 35. Motion to Postpone to a
Day Certain. A motion to postpone
to a day certain shall require a
majority vote of the members present; shall be subject to reconsideration; may be renewed after intervening business; shall be debatable
as to the propriety of the postponement but not upon the merits of the
legislation; and may be amended by
changing the date. Upon the arrival
of the date to which postponed the
legislation shall be considered in
the regular order of business of that
day.
Rule 36. Motion to Postpone Indefinitely. The motion to postpone
indefinitely shall have the same
effect as motion to lay on the table,
and shall require a majority vote of
all members elected to Council.
Motion to postpone indefinitely shall
not be reconsidered; shall be debatable and shall open the legislation
to debate; may be renewed after
intervening business and may not
be amended or laid on the table, and
shall be subject to previous question.
Rule 37. Reconsideration. After
the decision of any question, any
member who voted with the majority may move a reconsideration of
any action at the same or the next
succeeding meeting, provided, however, that a resolution authorizing
or relating to any contract may be
reconsidered at any time before the
final execution thereof. A motion to
reconsider shall require a majority
vote of all the members elected to
Council. After a motion for reconsideration has once been acted upon,
no other motion for a reconsideration thereof shall be made without
unanimous consent of the members
present.
VI. ORDINANCES AND
RESOLUTIONS
Note: “The adoption of a resolution is the proper procedure for an
informal enactment providing for
the disposition of a particular item
of business, while the passage of an
ordinance is the proper procedure
for the enactment of a regulation of
a general or permanent nature.” (19
R.C. L. 895; 46 C.J. 519; 29 O.A. 386).
Rule 38. Introduction. Ordinances
and resolutions shall be introduced
in the Council only in printed or
written form, with the name of the
member
introducing
the
same
endorsed thereon. No ordinance or
resolution affecting the zoning regulations or the construction of public improvements within a particular
ward shall be introduced in Council
in the name of the member of Council from such ward except with that
member’s written permission prior
to such introduction, and when the
member’s name shall be followed by
the
words
“By
departmental
request”, which shall be deemed not
to imply agreement with the purpose of such legislation by reason
of such sponsorship. Ordinances sub-

The City Record
mitted by the initiative shall have
endorsed thereon “Submitted by Initiative Petition”.
Rule 38-1. Preparation of Legislation. In order that adequate time
may be given to the preparation of
legislation,
members
of
Council
shall present requests for legislation
to the Law Department not later
than 5:00 o’clock P.M. on the Friday
preceding the meeting at which
such legislation is to be introduced
for first reading, and not later than
5:00 o’clock P.M. of the Wednesday
preceding introduction of legislation
for passage under suspension of the
rules.
Rule 38-2. Request for Legislation.
All legislation shall have indicated
at the end thereof the date of preparation and the initials of the draftsman and typist; and all legislation
originating in administrative departments shall contain in addition
thereto the name of the head of the
department or division for whom
prepared and the name of the member of Council introducing such legislation shall be followed by the
words “By request” in parentheses.
Rule 38-3. Request for Legislation
for Passage Under Suspension of the
Rules. The Clerk of Council shall
not accept a request for legislation
for passage on introduction under
suspension of the rules unless furnished sufficient copies of such legislation to provide each member of
Council therewith, together with a
like number of copies of a statement
by the Director of the requesting
department setting forth the reasons
requiring
the
immediate
action
thereon. A request for legislation for
passage on introduction under suspension of the rules at the last meeting prior to the Summer recess of
Council or at the final annual meeting of Council shall not be accepted
by the Clerk of Council unless the
required
statement
bears
the
approval of the President of Council. To the extent that circumstances
permit all such legislation shall be
considered informally by at least
one committee of Council, to which
such legislation would otherwise be
referred.
Rule 39. Form of Ordinances. The
enacting clause of all ordinances
shall be “Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland.” except
those submitted by Initiative petition, which shall be “Be it ordained
by the people of the City of Cleveland.” All ordinances before introduction shall be in typewritten form,
with two additional copies, on the
forms to be provided by the City
Clerk. No ordinance or resolution or
section thereof shall be revised or
amended unless the new ordinance
or resolution contains the entire
ordinance or resolution, or section
revised or amended, and the original ordinance, resolution, section, or
sections
so
amended
shall
be
repealed.
Rule 40. Emergency Ordinances. If
any emergency ordinance or resolution fails to receive a two-thirds
affirmative vote of all members
elected to Council, such measure
shall cease to be before the Council

9

9
as an emergency measure and shall
have the standing that a measure
would have had if it had not been
read as an emergency measure.
Rule 41. Reference to Committee.
All ordinances and resolutions shall
be read by title on the day when
introduced, unless such reading is
dispensed with by a two-thirds vote;
and unless otherwise ordered by the
Council shall be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or committees, which reference shall be announced forthwith
by the Clerk. The committee or committees to which the legislation is
so referred shall, after due consideration and at least one public hearing, propose any amendments with
recommendations for approval or
disapproval. When so reported, such
ordinance or resolution shall, unless
otherwise ordered, be read a second
time and laid over until the next
meeting of the Council, when the
same shall be read a third time and
a vote taken thereon. The Council
shall act upon no ordinance or resolution except a resolution of condolence or one of an extreme emergency nature, until it has been
referred to and reported upon by a
committee or committees of Council.
Rule 41-1. Re-reference to Committee.
Any
pending
legislation
may, by a vote of a majority of the
members elected to Council or by
declaration of the Council President
without objection, be referred to any
committee
to
which
previously
referred under these rules, or to any
appropriate committee designated in
the motion to re-refer. When referred back to the Council, such legislation shall have the same standing as it had at the time when rereferred.
Rule 42. Reference to More Than
One Committee. Whenever any pending matter is referred to more than
one committee for consideration and
report, said committee may consider
the same in joint session as a joint
committee, if the chairs of the committees concerned consent thereto.
The chair of the committee first
named shall preside at such joint
sessions, and each member of the
joint committee shall have one vote
for each committee of which he/she
is a member composing the joint
committee. A majority of the members of each of the separate committees shall constitute a quorum of
such committee and the vote shall
be taken by roll call of each of the
separate
committees
constituting
the joint committee. Its report shall
be made in the same manner and
under the same rules as reports are
made by standing committees.
Rule 42-1. Relieving Committees.
Any committee to which an ordinance
or
resolution
has
been
referred under Rule 41 or re-referred
under Rule 41-1, may be relieved of
further consideration of such legislation by a motion duly made and
adopted by a two-thirds vote of all
members elected to Council or by
the chair of the committee to which
the legislation has been referred
with the consent of the Council
President.

10
Rule 43. Three Readings. No ordinance or resolution shall be passed
until it has been read on three separate days; unless the reading on
three separate days has been dispensed with by a two-thirds vote of
all members elected to Council. The
final reading shall be in full unless
a written or printed copy of the
measure shall have been furnished
to each member of the Council prior
to such reading. Copies of all first
reading ordinances and resolutions
to be introduced for passage and
adoption under suspension of the
rules and without reading on three
separate days shall be placed on the
members’ desks within the Council
Chambers prior to a vote being
taken on the ordinance or resolution. When it is desired to suspend
this and rule 41 in order to permit
the passage of legislation upon
introduction the question on the
motion for such suspension shall be
as follows: “Shall the Charter and
statutory provisions and rule 43
requiring reading on three separate
days and rule 41 requiring reference
to committees be dispensed with and
Ordinance No. ... (Resolution No. ...)
be placed on final passage?” If twothirds of all the members elected to
Council vote aye, the Charter, statutory and rule requirements requiring reading on three separate days
and reference to committees shall be
suspended. As an exception to the
foregoing, resolutions of condolence
and congratulatory resolutions shall
be read by title only and adopted
viva voce or by rising vote.
Rule 43-1. Copies Required for Suspension of Rule 43. No ordinance of
a general nature or imposing penalties which has not been referred to
a committee of Council, shall be
passed under suspension of the rules
unless a copy of such ordinance
shall have been placed on the desk
of each member prior to the passage
of such ordinance under suspension
of Rule 43.
Rule 44. Appropriation Ordinances.
Ordinances making appropriations
shall be confined to the subject of
appropriation. No money shall be
appropriated except by ordinance.
All ordinances for fixing a tax rate,
the appropriation of money, the
issuance of bonds, the transfer of
money to any fund, or the payment
of claims; and all resolutions and
ordinances whereby the city shall
become liable for the payment of
any money, shall be referred without debate to the finance committee
for consideration and report; unless
this requirement shall be suspended
by two-thirds of all the members
elected. The vote of each suspension
shall be taken by yeas and nays and
entered on the record.
Rule 45. Substitute Legislation.
Legislation dealing with the same
subject matter may be substituted
for any pending ordinance or resolution by a majority vote of all the
members elected to Council, upon
the recommendation of any committee to which such legislation has
been referred. Substitute legislation
shall be subject to all the provisions
of the Charter and rules applying to
ordinances on first reading, and the

The City Record
legislation for which such substitute
is offered shall be laid upon the
table as a final disposition thereof.
Before accepting for introduction
any
substitute
legislation,
the
author of the original legislation
shall be given notice thereof by the
Clerk of Council.
Rule 46. Ordinances Fixing Fines
and Penalties. All ordinances imposing fines, penalties, forfeiture or
imprisonment shall be referred to
the Committee on Legislation, and
the Director of Law shall be asked
to give an opinion thereon.
Rule 47. Amendments. It shall be
in order to amend an ordinance at
any time when not in the hands of
a committee; but if amended after
its second reading, it shall again be
read as the second reading thereof,
and laid over for further and final
action. A majority vote of all the
members elected to Council shall be
necessary for the adoption of an
amendment to any legislation pending before the Council.
Rule 48. Adoption. All ordinances
and resolutions shall require for
passage or adoption a majority vote
of all the members elected. The vote
on their adoption shall be taken by
yeas and nays and entered on the
records of the meeting except as
otherwise provided in these rules.
Rule 49. Signing Ordinances and
Resolutions. All ordinances passed
and resolutions adopted by Council
shall be signed by the President and
presented forthwith to the Mayor by
the Clerk.
Rule 50. Action on Mayor’s Veto.
When the Mayor refuses to sign an
ordinance or resolution or part
thereof and returns such ordinance
or resolution to the Council with
objections, pursuant to Section 37 of
the Charter, the Council shall after
the expiration of not less than one
week following the meeting at
which such vetoed ordinance or resolution is returned, proceed to reconsider the same. After the adoption
of the motion so to reconsider, the
question shall be stated as follows:
“Shall Ordinance No. (Resolution
No.) be passed (or adopted) notwithstanding the veto of the Mayor?
Those voting aye vote to override
the Mayor’s veto. Those voting nay
vote to sustain the Mayor’s veto.” If
two-thirds of all the members elected to Council vote aye, such ordinance or resolution vetoed by the
Mayor shall take effect without the
Mayor’s signature.
VII. ADMINISTRATIVE
OFFICERS
Rule 51. Attendance Required. The
Mayor and the directors of all
departments shall be required to
attend the regular and special meeting of Council and shall be provided with seats on the floor of the
Council. They shall be required, at
any such meeting, to answer such
questions relating to the affairs of
the
city
under
their
respective
supervision and control as may be
put to them by any member of the
Council.

10

January 6, 2010
Rule 52. Reports of City Officers.
All ordinances, resolutions and communications pertaining to matters
that come under the supervision and
control of the Mayor shall, in addition to being referred to the proper
committees, be also referred to such
respective
administrative
officers
for recommendation and report. Not
later than thirty (30) days after reference to the administrative officer
or officers as the case may be each
ordinance, resolution, or communication so referred shall be returned
to the Clerk of Council with the
endorsement of each such administrative officer’s approval or disapproval of such matter so referred. It
shall be the duty of the Clerk of
Council to enforce this rule rigidly.
The Clerk shall use all diligence in
seeing that departments to which
measures are referred return them
to the Clerk’s office within the time
fixed herein.
Rule 52-1. Mandatory Referral of
Legislation. Mandatory referral of
legislation under Section 76-3 of the
Charter shall be deemed to include
the following matters:
1. Zoning or other regulations of
land use.
2. Acquisition or lease of land for
public uses.
3. Sale or lease of publicly owned
lands.
4.
Vacation
or
dedication
of
streets or alleys.
5. Street widening or street extensions.
6. Permits for private uses of
streets or public property.
7. Determining to proceed with
public improvements.
8. Requests for studies or plan
preparation.
9. Bond issues for capital improvements.
10. Housing.
A request for an additional thirty (30) day period for further consideration may be granted by the
President of Council if the application for such extension is submitted to the President before the
expiration of the thirty (30) day
period allowed by Section 76-3 of
the Charter. No further extension
of time shall be allowed except
upon motion of a member of Council adopted by a majority vote of
all the members present. Such
request shall be filed with the
Clerk of Council.
Rule 52-2. Mutilation of Legislation. No alteration, change, erasure
or mark shall be made upon any
piece of legislation by any person
except the Clerk of Council and then
only pursuant to an amendment
thereto made by Council pursuant to
Rule 47. Nothing shall be physically
attached to any piece of legislation
after introduction thereof except the
fiscal certificate required by Section
106 of the Charter nor shall any
endorsement appear upon any legislation except that of the head of the
department or office to which referred or the person duly authorized
by such head. Reports of subordinates to the heads of departments or
other pertinent data or reports may

January 6, 2010
be filed with such legislation if
referred to in the official reports
endorsed upon the back of such
piece of legislation.
VIII. COUNCIL CHAMBER
Rule 53. Use of Council Chamber.
The Council Chamber shall be used
only for meetings of the Council or
committees thereof, except where
the Council by vote authorizes its
use by persons other than city officials. The Clerk, with the written
approval of the President of Council, may permit other public officials
to use the Council Chamber on public business, when not in use by the
Council or committees.
Rule 54. Privileges of Floor. No
person except members or former
members of the Council, officers
named in the rules, reporters and
persons invited by the President of
Council or by vote of the Council
shall be admitted within the bar of
the
Council
chamber,
and
the
Sergeant-at-Arms shall cause this
rule to be rigidly enforced.
IX. RULES, SUSPENSION,
AMENDMENT AND OTHER
Rule 55. Suspension of Rules. Any
provision of these rules may be suspended at any meeting of the Council, by a majority vote of all the
members elected, except when a
greater number is required by law
or by the rules. The vote on any
such suspensions shall be taken by
yeas and nays and entered upon the
records.
Rule 56. Amending Rules. These
rules may be amended, or new rules
may be adopted by a majority vote
of all members elected to the Council, on the report of the committee
formed for such purpose.
Rule 57. Other Rules. Except as
herein otherwise provided, the proceedings of the Council shall be governed by the City Charter, the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and Robert’s Rules of
Order, and it shall be the duty of
the presiding officer to adhere to
and enforce such rules.

The City Record
Resolution No. 580-09.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of December, 2009 in the amount of
$10,481.06, attached and made apart
of this resolution, is received, approved and ordered filed.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Director
Smith, Acting Director R. Scott,
Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Acting
Director
West,
Directors
Nichols, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 581-09.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Shook, Inc. Northern Division for the public improvement of
the Morgan Chemical Facility Project No. 119, including a $1,592,855.00
contingency allowance, all items, for
the Division of Water, Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received
on
November 18, 2009, under the authority of Ordinance No. 649-09, passed
June 8, 2009, upon a unit basis for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of $17,521,405.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
a contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractors by Shook, Inc.
Northern Division for the above-mentioned public improvement is approved:

The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, December 30,
2009, at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Director
Smith, Acting Director R. Scott,
Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Acting
Director
West,
Directors
Nichols, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: James Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Natoya Walker, Interim Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:

authority of Ordinance No. 485-07,
passed June 11, 2007 by the Cleveland City Council, for a gross price
for the improvement in the aggregate amount of $136,705, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bidder, and the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by R.
W. Clark Company, Inc. is approved:
Subcontractor
MBE/FBE

Amount
Percentage

Precision Industrial
MBE

$10,598.00
7.752%

Work Best Electric
CSB/FBE

$ 5,000.00
3.658%

Anderson Janitorial
CSB/MBE

$

Don Koo & Associates

$ 5,200.00
3.803%

SRD Builder

$17,670.00
12.926%

Dentz Painting

$ 3,995.00
2.922%

300.00
.219%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Director
Smith, Acting Director R. Scott,
Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Acting
Director
West,
Directors
Nichols, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Director
Smith, Acting Director R. Scott,
Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Acting
Director
West,
Directors
Nichols, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

Resolution No. 583-09.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Fire Force Inc., for an estimated
quantity of Thermal Imaging Cameras, item number 1 thru item number 4, for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on October 16, 2009,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
912-09, passed by Cleveland City
Council on July 1, 2009, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $232,548.00, is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Safety is hereby requested to enter into a requirement
contract for the goods and/or services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:

Resolution No. 582-09.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of R. W. Clark Company,
Inc., for the public improvement of
the building improvements for the
office renovations to the Department
of Community Development, Real Estate Office, base bid, and alternates
1A, 1B, 2A, 2B, 2C and 3, for the Department of Public Service, received
on October 14, 2009, under the

Requisition No. 199430
as specified,
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $232,548.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.

SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

PriceBuilders (CSB/MBE)

$160,000.00
0.913%

PettyGroup(CSB/MBE)

$

BOARD OF CONTROL
December 30, 2009

11

11

8,274.00
0.047%

The City Record

12
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Director
Smith, Acting Director R. Scott,
Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Acting
Director
West,
Directors
Nichols, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 584-09.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of
Independence
Communications,
Inc., for an estimated quantity of
Installation and Removal of Existing
Mobile Data Computers and Existing
In-Car Video system Components,
item number 1 and item number 2, for
the Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
October 23, 2009, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 733-09, passed by
Cleveland City Council on June 8,
2009, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$356,470.59, is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 188185
as specified,
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $348,820.59.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Director
Smith, Acting Director R. Scott,
Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Acting
Director
West,
Directors
Nichols, Fumich, Interim Director
Mahoney and Director Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing

will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2010
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 09-247: 13600 Deise Avenue (Ward 10)
Northern Lakes Management Company, owner, and Northern Ohio
Scrap Service Corporation, lessee,
through attorney Craig Miller, appeal under Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances from
a Notice of Nonconformance issued
November 13, 2009 by the City of
Cleveland Chief Building Official
for a proposed scrap metal processing facility and open yard storage
of scrap metal with an industrialized unit office building on acreage
located at 13600 Deise Avenue.
Calendar No. 09-256: 1464 West 57th
Street (Ward 15)
Jacqueline Ortiz, owner appeals to
erect a one-story frame, open porch
at the front of a one-family dwelling
on a 40' x 70' parcel in a Two-Family District; contrary to Section
357.05(a) an interior side yard of 3
feet is provided where 5 feet is required. The proposed porch projects
8 feet contrary to 6 feet, and a distance of 8 feet 8 inches is provided
from the street line, contrary to a
required 10 feet according to Section
357.13(b)(4) in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-257: 4219 Cyril Avenue (Ward 14)
Burnice Weaver, owner, appeals to
install a gravel driveway on a 35'
x 140' parcel in a Two-Family District; nonconforming to Section 337.18
that requires accessory off-street parking spaces, driveway and maneuvering areas to be properly graded for
drainage so that all water is drained within the lot providing such
parking spaces, surfaced with concrete asphaltic concrete, asphalt or
similar surfacing material, maintained in good condition and free of
debris and trash, as stated in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-261: 2916 Fulton
Road (Ward 14)
Olga Rodriquez, owner, appeals to
erect a 7' x 30' 4" one-story frame,
open porch to the front of an existing two-family dwelling on a 47' x
55' parcel in a Local Retail Business District; contrary to Section
357.13(b)(4), the proposed porch pro-

12

January 6, 2010
jects 7 feet where an open porch
may not project more than 6 feet
and no distance is provided where
the porch may not extend within 10
feet of the street line, and the existing nonconforming use, front porch
for a two family dwelling, requires
the Board of Zoning Appeals approval in accordance with Section
359.01 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-264: 1524 East 118th
Street (Ward 9)
Jordan Real Estate LLC and
Emmett Jordan, owner, appeal to
install approximately 98 linear feet
of 6-foot tall privacy fence along
the side yard of a 40' x 138.92' parcel in a Two-Family District; and a
distance of 4 feet from an adjacent
residence
building
is
proposed,
where a fence in an actual side
yard of a residence district shall
not exceed 6 feet in height and not
be higher than its distance from a
residence building on an adjacent
property,
according
to
Section
358.04(a) in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 09-265: 450 East 109th
Street (Ward 8)
Melvin Upshaw, owner, and Bernice Daniels, tenant, appeal to erect
a 5' x 5' wheelchair lift on a 40' x
87' parcel in a One-Family District
where a wheelchair lift is not a permitted encroachment in the provisions of Section 357.13 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 4, 2010
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
4, 2010, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 09-258: 18300 Lotus
Drive
Ervin Simmons, owner, and Janice
Talley, tenant, appealed to erect a
pre-manufactured wheelchair lift and
a front porch landing on a parcel in
an A1 One-Family District; subject
to conditions.
Calendar No. 09-215: 339 Skyview
Road
William Kirchner appealed to erect
as 12' x 12' rear deck extension to
an existing deck in an A1 One-Family District.
The following appeal was Denied:
None
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

Calendar No. 09-177: 10515 Sandusky
Avenue
Micah Sanford, owner, and Lynette
Franklin, tenant, appealed to change
use from a beauty salon to a day
care a two-story dwelling house in
a Two-Family District.

The City Record

January 6, 2010
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 09-244: 1678 Leonard Avenue postponed to February 16, 2010.

13

Cleveland Division of Assessments
and Licenses to deny an application
for a Coin Operated Amusement Device Licenses.
Secretary

Calendar No. 09-245: 3926 Valley Road
postponed to February 22, 2010.
Calendar No. 09-248: 1859-65 West
25th Street postponed to January
25, 2010.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Calendar No. 08-54: 3902 Lee Road
postponed to February 16, 2010.

NO MEETING

Calendar No. 09-218: 1616 West 25th
Street postponed to February 22,
2010.

PUBLIC NOTICE

The following appeals heard by the
Board on December 21, 2009 were adopted and approved on January 4, 2010.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 09-240: 7515 Euclid Avenue
Cleveland Housing Network, owner,
and Emerald Alliance V, LP appealed to construct a 70 unit apartment building in a Midtown Mixed
Use District 1.
Calendar No. 09-242: 5705 Franklin
Boulevard
Lynnhaven Development Group,
LLC appealed to erect a one-story
accessory garage on an irregular
shaped corner parcel in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 09-246: 3436 Broadview
Road
Aqua Santi Builders appealed to
erect a two-story room addition to a
one-family dwelling in a Multi-Family District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 09-243: 11010 Ashbury
Avenue
Samona Johnson appealed to establish a Type A day Care use in an existing dwelling in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 09-249: 4641 Broadway
Avenue
Katherine Kirschnick, d.b.a. Finn
Café appealed from a decision of the

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, January 20, 2010
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:

W. 58th Street to Open Space and
Recreation District (Map Change No.
2286 Sheet No. 1).
Ord. No. 1114-09.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land located on the northeast corner of Clinton Avenue and
West 65th Street to Open Space and
Recreation District (Map Change No.
2285 Sheet No. 1).
Ord. No. 1727-09.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
located on the south side of Carnegie
Avenue and the north side of Cedar
between East 100 Street and East
106th as shown on the attached map
to an Institutional Research Use District, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’
Height District (Map Change No. 2290;
Sheet No. 5 & 9).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
January 6, 2010 and January 13, 2010

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

Ord. No. 1112-09.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands on the southwest
corner of West 57th Street and Ithaca Court shown shaded on the
attached map from Two Family Residential (2F) to Urban Garden District (UGD) (Map Change No. 2287,
Sheet No. 1).

NO BIDS

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
____________
NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
Ord. No. 1113-09.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land located on the northeast corner of Bridge Avenue and

MEETINGS

NO MEETINGS

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Office renovations — per Ord. 485-07 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — Office of Real Estate,
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 582-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Finance Department
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in December 2009 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 580-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

13

The City Record

14

January 6, 2010

Board of Control — Fire Division
Cameras, thermal imaging — per Ord. 912-09 to Fire Force Inc. — Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 583-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Garrett A. Morgan Water Works Plant
Chemical Facility Project No. 119 — per Ord. 649-09 to Shook, Inc. Northern Division —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 581-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Police Division
Computers, Mobile Data and In-Car Video systems — per Ord. 733-09 to Independence
Communications, Inc. — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 584-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Morgan Water Works Chemical Facility Project No. 119 — per Ord. 649-09 to
Shook, Inc. Northern Division — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 581-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Office renovations — per Ord. 485-07 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — Office of Real Estate,
Depts. of Community Development and Public Service (BOC Res. 582-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Cameras, thermal imaging — per Ord. 912-09 to Fire Force Inc. — Division of Fire
(BOC Res. 583-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Computers, Mobile Data and In-Car Video systems — per Ord. 733-09 to Independence
Communications, Inc. — Division of Police (BOC Res. 584-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Office renovations — per Ord. 485-07 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — Office of Real Estate,
Dept. of Community Development (BOC Res. 582-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Morgan Water Works Chemical Facility Project No. 119 — per Ord. 649-09 to
Shook, Inc. Northern Division — Division of Water (BOC Res. 581-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in December 2009 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 580-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Real Estate Division
Office renovations — per Ord. 485-07 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — Depts. of Community
Development and Public Service (BOC Res. 582-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Cameras, thermal imaging — per Ord. 912-09 to Fire Force Inc. — Division of Fire, Dept.
of Public Safety (BOC Res. 583-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Computers, Mobile Data and In-Car Video systems — per Ord. 733-09 to Independence
Communications, Inc. — Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 584-09). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Board of Control — Water Division
Morgan Water Works Chemical Facility Project No. 119 — per Ord. 649-09 to
Shook, Inc. Northern Division — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 581-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Ashbury Avenue, 11010, (Ward 9) — Samona Johnson, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
1/4/10 (Cal. 09-243). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadview Road, 3436, (Ward 15) — Aqua Santi Builders, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/4/10 (Cal. 09-246) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadview Road, 4641, (Ward 5) — Katherine Kirschnick, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 1/4/10 (Cal. 09-249) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 7515, (Ward 6) — Cleveland Housing Network, owner and Emerald Alliance V,
LP — appeal granted and adopted on 10/4/10 (Cal. 09-240) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 5705, (Ward 17) — Lynnhaven Development Group, LLC, owner — appeal
granted and adopted on 1/4/10 (Cal. 09-242) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Road, 3902, (Ward 1) — John Barnes, Jr., owner — appeal postponed to 2/16/10 on
1/4/10 (Cal. 08-54) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

14

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

January 6, 2010

The City Record

15

Leonard Avenue, 1678, (Ward 13) — Mike Hirko, owner, and Chuck Rogers, tenant — appeal
postponed to 2/16/10 on 1/4/10 (Cal. 09-244) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lotus Drive, 18300, (Ward 1) — Ervin Simmons, owner, and Janice Talley, tenant — appeal
heard on 1/4/10 (Cal. 09-258) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sandusky Avenue, 10515, (Ward 2) — Micah Sanford, owner and Lynette Franklin, tenant —
appeal dismissed on 1/4/10 (Cal. 09-177) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Skyview Road, 339, (Ward 15) — William Kirchner, owner — appeal heard on 1/4/2010
(Cal. 09-215) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valley Road, 3926, (Ward 15) — Valley Road Properties, owner, and Verizon Wireless,
prospective lessee — appeal postponed to 2/22/10 on 1/4/10 (Cal. 09-245) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1616, (Ward 13) — Ojala Properties, LLC, owner and Wael Ayyad, tenant —
appeal postponed to 2/22/10 on 1/4/10 (Cal. 09-218) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1859-65, (Ward 13) — Heil Building Inc., owner, and Cleveland Garage
LLC, tenant — appeal postponed to 1/25/10 on 1/4/10 (Cal. 09-248) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Cyril Avenue, 4219, (Ward 14) — Burnice Weaver, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/19/2010
(Cal. 09-257) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deise Avenue, 13600, (Ward 10) — Northern Lakes Management Company, owner and Northern
Ohio Scrap Service Corporation, lessee, through attorney Craig Miller — appeal to
be heard on 1/19/2010 (Cal. 09-247) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 109th Street, 450, (Ward 14) — Melvin Upshaw, owner, and Bernice Daniels, tenant —
appeal to be heard on 1/19/2010 (Cal. 09-265) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 1524, (Ward 14) — Jordan Real Estate LLC and Emmett Jordan, owner —
appeal to be heard on 1/19/2010 (Cal. 09-264) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Road, 2916, (Ward 14) — Olga Rodriquez, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/19/2010
(Cal. 09-261) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 57th Street, 1464, (Ward 15) — Jacqueline Ortiz, owner — appeal to be heard on
1/19/2010 (Cal. 09-256) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

City Council
Britt, Patricia J. — Clerk of Council, City Clerk — Oath of Office (F 5-10). . . . . . . . . .
Council Members, 2010-2013 — Ward 1 through 19 — Oath of Office (F 3-10) . . . . . . . .
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — Council Meeting of January 4,
Rules of Council, 2010-2013 Term (F 6-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Martin J. — oath of office — President of Cleveland City Council (F 4-10).

.......
.......
2010 (F
.......
.......

.....
.....
1-10)
.....
.....

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

4
3
3
4
4

Clerk of Council
Britt, Patricia J. — Clerk of Council, City Clerk — Oath of office (F 5-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — Council Meeting of January 4, 2010 (F 1-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Communications
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — Council Meeting of January 4, 2010 (F 1-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Rules of Council, 2010-2013 Term (F 6-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Mayor’s Office
Jackson, Frank G. — oath of office — Mayor (F 2-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Oath of Office
Britt, Patricia J. — Clerk of Council, City Clerk — Oath of office (F 5-10) . . . . . . . . . .
Council Members, 2010-2013 — Ward 1 through 19 — oath of office (F 3-10) . . . . . . . . .
Jackson, Frank G. — oath of office — Mayor (F 2-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sweeney, Martin J. — oath of office — President of Cleveland City Council (F 4-10).

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

4
3
3
4

Zoning
Bridge Ave. (northeast corner) & W. 58th St. — Change the Use District —
Open Space and Recreation District — City Planning Commission (Ward 17)
(O 1113-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Ave. (south side) — Cedar Ave. (between East 100 St. & East 106th St.) —
change Use, Area and Height District — City Planning Commission (Ward 06)
(O 1727-09 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clinton Ave. (northeast corner) & W. 65th St. — Change the Use District —
Open Space and Recreation District — City Planning Commission (Ward 17)
(O 1114-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 57th Street (southwest corner) & Ithaca Court — Change the Use District —
Two Family Residential to Urban Garden District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 17) (O 1112-09) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

15

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

