The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

August the Seventeenth, Two Thousand and Sixteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

40

Board of Control

40

Civil Service

45

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

57

2 Zachary Reed
3 Kerry McCormack

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
62

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

63

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

63

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

63

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

64

Committee Meetings

97

Index

97

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kerry McCormack ..............................................1429 West 38th Street
44113
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – _________________ Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Fred Szabo, Interim Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – ____________, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – _____________, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – Edward Jamison, Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole West, Interim Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Julie Trott, Chair; Giancarlo
Calicchia, Vice Chair; Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Council
Member Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Donald Petit, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 15C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 14C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael R. Sliwinski – Courtroom 12A
Judge Janet Rath Colaluca – Courtroom 12B
Judge Suzan Marie Sweeney – Courtroom 12C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda
– Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

Vol. 103

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 17, 2016

No. 5358

CITY COUNCIL
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 10, 2016
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2015-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cummins
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, J. Johnson, McCormack.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson (CHAIR), Dow (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Kazy, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR),
Cummins,
Dow,
McCormack, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt (CHAIR), Brady (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Kazy, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Mitchell (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Dow, Kelley.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Mitchell, Kelley, Keane,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Polensek, Pruitt.

Kelley
Keane,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Wednesday, August 10, 2016
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 5:55 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.

Council Members present: Dona
Brady, Anthony Brancatelli, Phyllis
E. Cleveland, Kevin Conwell, Brian
J. Cummins, TJ Dow, Jeffrey D.
Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Brian
Kazy, Kevin J. Kelley, Martin J.
Keane, Kerry McCormack, Mamie J.
Mitchell, Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack Reed, and
Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief Operating Officer
Darnell Brown, Chief of Regional
Development Edward W. Rybka,
Chief of Education Monyka S. Price,
Media
Relations
Director
Dan
Williams, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Davis, Szabo, Spronz,
Gordon, McGrath, O’Leary, West,
Nichols, Griffin, Fumich, Ambroz
and Burrows.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Keane, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Pruitt.

of $4,000 from U.S. Department of
Transportation through University
Hospitals of Cleveland. Received.
File No. 898-16.
From Office of Equal Opportunity,
City of Cleveland. City Resident Utilization Report, July 2016. Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 899-16.
RE: #13501250005. New License
Application, D3. Cedar Deli, Inc.,
11365
Euclid
Ave.
(Ward
9).
Received.
File No. 900-16.
RE:
#19449310090.
Economic
Development Transfer Application,
D1 D2. Dave’s Supermarket, Inc.,
2700
Carroll
Ave.
(Ward
3).
Received.
File No. 901-16.
RE: #8932938. New License Application, C2. Gee Gee Grocery Co., 968
East 105th St. (Ward 9). Received.
File No. 902-16.
RE: #935794112444. Stock Application, C1 C2. Walgreen Co., 3415
Clark Ave. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 903-16.
RE: #9283393. Transfer of License
Application, D2 D2X D3 D6. VIP
Beauty Bar LLC, 668 Euclid Ave.
(Ward 3). Received.
File No. 904-16.
RE: #1366552. Transfer of License
Application,
C2
C2X.
Josephine
Martha Cerer, 2701 Lorain Ave.
(Ward 3). Received.
File No. 905-16.
RE: #935794103226. Stock Application, C1 C2. Walgreen Co., 6410
Broadway Ave. (Ward 12). Received.
File No. 906-16.
RE: #6331968. New License Application, C2. Neetu Foods, Inc., 1303
Clark Ave. (Ward 12). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:

OATH OF OFFICE
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Kazy, Keane, McCormack,
Mitchell, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Kazy, Reed.

File No. 896-16.
James O. Laing, Captain of Fire,
City of Cleveland. Received.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 897-16.
From Director Michael McGrath,
Department of Public Safety, City of
Cleveland. Notice of gift acceptance

1179

Res. No. 991-16 — Howard Ray
Harris.
Res. No. 992-16 — Emogene Pruitt.
Res. No. 993-16 — Catherine A.
(Ledinsky) Gresky.
Res. No. 994-16 — Annie Bell Bailey.
Res. No. 995-16 — Norman Joseph
Brindza.
Res. No. 996-16 — John Michael
Awarski.

The City Record

4
Res. No.
Rutkowski.

997-16

—

Francis

A.

CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 998-16 — Evana Lee Jackson.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 999-16 — Dick Goddard
(‘Goddard’s Law’) HB 60.
Res. No. 1000-16 — Judge Sara J.
Harper – Street Dedication “Sara J.
Harper Way”.
Res. No. 1001-16 — Global Ambassadors Language Academy (GALA).
Res. No. 1002-16 — Family 4 Life
Center.
Res. No. 1003-16 — Family 4 Life
Summer
Entrepreneur
Camp
for
Kids.
Res. No. 1004-16 — John D. Cimperman.
Res. No. 1005-16 — 2016 National
Hispanic Heritage Month.
Res. No. 1006-16 — Michael (Mickey) Ezzo.
Res. No. 1007-16 — Albert Sardelle.
Res.
No.
1008-16
—
Salvatore
Charles Scherma.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res.
No.
1009-16
Nathan N. Nance.

—

Reverend

WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1010-16 — Curry Family
Reunion.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 909-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing refunding and remarketing of airport system revenue bonds; authorizing supplemental indentures and
other agreements related to the
bonds; and authorizing and approving related matters.
Whereas, under authority of the
Constitution of the State of Ohio and
the Charter of the City, this Council
has by ordinance authorized the
issuance of Revenue Bonds, from time
to time, for the Airport System under
the terms and security of the Amended and Restated Trust Indenture
(Seventeenth Supplemental Trust
Indenture), effective as of January
31, 2012 (the “Trust Indenture”),
between the City and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A., as trustee (the “Trustee”); and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance by
the City of Airport System Revenue
Refunding
Bonds
(“Refunding
Bonds”) under the Trust Indenture

for the purpose of refunding Outstanding Revenue Bonds, as defined
and provided in this Ordinance, or,
alternatively in the case of Outstanding Revenue Bonds bearing interest
at variable rates, the interest rate
mode conversion or change in Credit
Support Instrument and remarketing
of Outstanding Revenue Bonds, in
either case to obtain debt service savings, or to stabilize interest rates or
minimize risks of increased interest
expense on Outstanding Revenue
Bonds that bear interest at variable
rates, or to eliminate or modify
covenants that are unduly restrictive,
or to obtain a more favorable debt service structure; and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department and providing
for the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health or safety in that authorizing the refunding
and other actions with respect to Outstanding Revenue Bonds is necessary
to enable the City to respond to market conditions on a timely basis for
the benefit of the Airport System;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions.
In addition to the words and terms
defined in the Trust Indenture, the
following words and terms shall have
the following meanings, unless the
context or use indicates a contrary
meaning or intention.
“Bond Purchase Agreement” means,
with respect to the Refunding Bonds,
one or more Bond Purchase Agreements between the City and the Original Purchasers authorized in Section
5 of this Ordinance.
“Certificate of Award” means one or
more certificates delivered by the
Director of Finance pursuant to Section 5 of this Ordinance providing for
the final terms of the Refunding
Bonds of any series consistent with
the requirements of the Trust Indenture and this Ordinance.
“Code” means the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, including,
when appropriate, the statutory predecessor of the Code and all applicable Treasury regulations.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance the security or liquidity of
any Revenue Bonds or any Hedge
Agreements.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record beneficial ownership of Revenue Bonds or Bond service charges,
and to effect transfers of Revenue
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Direct Payment” means a credit
allowed under the Code with respect
to obligations that is payable to the
City by the U.S. Treasury.
“Direct
Payment
Obligations”
means obligations the interest on
which is includible in gross income
for federal income tax purposes and
with respect to which the City shall

1180

August 17, 2016
have made an irrevocable election to
receive a Direct Payment.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance of
the City, from time to time, in connection with the Revenue Bonds or any
Hedge Agreement.
“Hedge Agreement” has the meaning given in Section 3 of this Ordinance.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to each series of Refunding
Bonds, the financial institutions identified in the Certificate of Award for
that series.
“Outstanding
Revenue
Bonds”
means Revenue Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Trust Indenture, including without
limitation any Refunding Bonds
issued pursuant to this Ordinance. On
the date of introduction of this Ordinance, the Outstanding Revenue
Bonds (and the respective principal
amounts then currently outstanding)
consisted of the following series of
Airport System Revenue Bonds:
Series 2000C ($6,000,000), Series 2006A
($48,065,000), Series 2006B ($1,610,000),
Series 2007B ($7,295,000), Series 2008D
($5,975,000), Series 2009C ($107,305,000),
Series 2009D ($30,200,000), Series 2011A
($49,930,000),
Series
2012A
($235,150,000),
Series
2013A
($58,000,000), Series 2014A ($24,025,000),
Series 2014B ($6,465,000) and Series
2016A ($108,120,000).
“Refunded Bonds” means those Outstanding Revenue Bonds identified in
a Certificate of Award to be refunded
from proceeds of Refunding Bonds.
“Refunding Bonds” means the Airport System Revenue Refunding
Bonds authorized by this Ordinance
to be issued as Additional Revenue
Bonds under the Trust Indenture for
the purpose of refunding one or more
series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds,
or designated maturities thereof.
“Remarketing Agent” means a
financial institution performing the
duties of a remarketing agent under a
Supplemental Indenture for variable
rate Revenue Bonds.
“Revenue Bonds” means Outstanding Revenue Bonds and any Additional Revenue Bonds issued under the
Trust Indenture.
“Supplemental Indenture” means
each Supplemental Trust Indenture
delivered to supplement the Trust
Indenture, to further provide for the
terms and security of one or more
series of Revenue Bonds or to amend
the Trust Indenture.
“Taxable
Bonds”
means
any
Refunding Bonds the interest on
which is included in gross income for
federal income tax purposes.
“Tax-Exempt Bonds” means Revenue Bonds bearing interest excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes.
Section 2. Authorization of the
Refunding Bonds.
This Council authorizes the City to
issue the Refunding Bonds in one or
more Series for the purpose of refunding one or more Series of Outstanding
Revenue Bonds, or designated portions thereof, to obtain aggregate net
present value debt service savings of
at least three percent (3%), or to eliminate or modify covenants that are
unduly restrictive, or to obtain a more
favorable debt service structure or
more favorable terms under Credit
Support Instruments. With respect to
Outstanding Revenue Bonds that are

August 17, 2016
short-term or variable-rate obligations, this Council authorizes the City
to issue Refunding Bonds to refund
such Outstanding Revenue Bonds, or
designated portions thereof, for any
of the foregoing purposes or for the
purpose that the Director of Finance
has determined, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
such Outstanding Revenue Bonds are
subjecting the City to undesirably
high rates of interest or undesirable
fluctuations in rates of interest or
risks or expenses associated with
Credit Support Instruments or Hedge
Agreements that can economically be
avoided or mitigated through refunding. The principal amount of each
Series of Refunding Bonds is to be the
amount set forth in the Certificate of
Award authorized in Section 5 and
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, to be necessary (i) to refund the Refunded Bonds
to be refunded by that Series, (ii) to
fund any interest on the Refunding
Bonds, (iii) to fund any deposit to the
Bond Service Reserve Fund required
under the Trust Indenture or any special reserve fund for that Series separate from the Bond Service Reserve
Fund, (iv) to fund any deposit to the
Renewal and Replacement Fund
required under the Trust Indenture,
(v) to pay costs of any Credit Support
Instruments, (vi) to pay any amounts
owed under Hedge Agreements, and
(vii) to pay costs of issuing the
Refunding Bonds and refunding the
Refunded Bonds.
Separate series of Refunding Bonds
may be issued at the same or different
times. The Refunding Bonds of each
series shall be designated as provided
in the applicable Certificate of
Award. A separate Certificate of
Award and a separate Supplemental
Indenture may be delivered for each
series. The proceeds from the sale of
each Series of Refunding Bonds shall
be allocated, deposited and applied as
provided in Section 6. The Refunding
Bonds shall constitute Revenue
Bonds for all purposes of the Trust
Indenture.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Refunding
Bonds for a purpose provided in this
Ordinance serves a proper, public,
municipal purpose by reducing or stabilizing costs of air travel facilities
serving the people of the City of
Cleveland, thereby increasing and
promoting commerce by providing
necessary transportation for individuals and commercial enterprises purchasing and selling services and
products in northeastern Ohio, and
creating and preserving jobs and
employment opportunities in the City
and improving the economic welfare
of the City.
Section 3. Authorization of Hedging
Arrangements.
This Council finds that by engaging in interest rate hedging arrangements with respect to Revenue Bonds
the City may reduce its cost of borrowing by optimizing the relative
amounts of fixed and variable rate
obligations, or minimizing the risk of
variations in its debt service costs, or
obtaining savings by confirming
rates of interest on Revenue Bonds in
advance of their issuance. To permit
the City to have the flexibility to
undertake interest rate swap, swaption, rate cap, rate collar and other
hedging transactions, from time to

The City Record
time, and to establish the procedures
for approving those transactions, this
Council authorizes the signing and
delivery of one or more agreements
(each, a “Hedge Agreement”) and any
related agreements necessary for the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated by each Hedge Agreement. The authorizations in this Section 3 are supplemental to and not in
derogation of any authority provided
by any other ordinance of this Council
concerning hedging arrangements.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that it is to the financial advantage of
the City and in the City’s best interests that a hedging arrangement be
undertaken by the City with respect
to any Revenue Bonds issued or to be
issued under the Trust Indenture, the
Director of Finance may authorize
one or more interest rate hedge transactions in accordance with the applicable Hedge Agreement; provided that
the term of each hedge transaction
shall not exceed the final maturity of
the Revenue Bonds to which the
hedge relates.
The Director of Finance shall negotiate the terms of each Hedge Agreement. The City shall receive a written
opinion of a Financial Advisor that
the payments made or to be made by
the counterparty to the City, or by the
City to the counterparty, shall be fair
value for the Hedge Agreement, considering, among other things, the
credit of the City’s Airport System,
the credit of the counterparty and the
terms and conditions of the Hedge
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall determine the terms and conditions of the Hedge Agreement, including without limitation, the time or
times and procedures for the exercise
by the counterparty or the City, as the
case may be, of any option under the
Hedge Agreement, whether the obligations of the City under the Hedge
Agreement shall be secured by a Credit Support Instrument, and the rates
to be paid by the counterparty to the
City and by the City to the counterparty under the Hedge Agreement in
the event of the exercise of the option.
The approval of each interest rate
hedge transaction by the Director of
Finance shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery of
the applicable Hedge Agreement by
the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into an amendment,
modification or novation of any
Hedge Agreement or any Credit Support Instrument securing a Hedge
Agreement or to terminate any Hedge
Agreement, in whole or in part, if the
Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that (a) the
amendment, modification, novation or
termination is (i) justified by the corresponding benefit to the City, (ii)
commercially reasonable based on
then-current market conditions, and
(iii) in the City’s best interests, and
(b) any payments made or to be made
by the counterparty to the City, or by
the City to the counterparty, are fair
value for such amendment, modification, novation or termination, given
the credit of the counterparty and the
terms and conditions of the amendment, modification, novation or termination. To the extent that any
amounts to be paid by the City in connection with any such amendment,

1181

5
modification, novation or termination
are not paid from proceeds of Revenue Bonds, those amounts shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106 and 60 SF 141
and/or passenger facility charges, as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance after consultation with the
Director of Port Control.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from the Airport Revenues as defined
in the Trust Indenture and may be
payable also from other funds permitted by law to be used for the purpose,
as identified by the Director of
Finance in the Hedge Agreement.
Those payments may be secured by a
pledge of Airport Revenues, to the
extent permitted by the Trust Indenture, all as determined by the Director
of Finance and set forth in the Hedge
Agreement. The obligation of the City
to make payments under any Hedge
Agreement does not and shall not represent or constitute a general obligation, debt, bonded indebtedness or a
pledge of the faith and credit of the
City or the State of Ohio. Nothing
gives any party to any Hedge Agreement the right to have excises, ad valorem or other taxes levied by the City
or the State of Ohio for the payment of
any amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
In the event the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that it
is necessary to supplement or amend
the Trust Indenture or a Supplemental Indenture in connection with any
Hedge Agreement or any amendment,
modification, novation or termination
of any Hedge Agreement, the Mayor
and the Director of Finance are authorized to sign and deliver a Supplemental Indenture or amendment of an
existing Supplemental Indenture.
Section 4. Terms of Refunding
Bonds.
The Refunding Bonds shall contain
the terms provided in or determined
pursuant to, the Trust Indenture, this
Ordinance, the applicable Certificate
of Award and the applicable Supplemental Indenture. Each series of
Refunding Bonds may be secured by a
separate Supplemental Indenture, or
a single Supplemental Indenture may
secure more than one series of
Refunding Bonds.
(a) General. The Refunding Bonds
may be issued as obligations bearing
interest at fixed or variable interest
rates. In the event that the Director of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, determines
that the City’s best interests will be
served by a series of Refunding
Bonds bearing interest at variable
interest rates, then provision shall be
made in the Supplemental Indenture
applicable to that series for the
method and procedure by which the
variable rate of interest to be borne
by the Refunding Bonds of that series
shall be determined (whether by reference to a market index, by a remarketing agent or otherwise); provided
that no series of variable rate Refunding Bonds shall bear interest at a rate
in excess of twenty-five percent
(25%) per year (including any
Refunding Bonds held by a provider
of a Credit Support Instrument). The
Director of Finance may determine
that the terms of a variable rate
series of Refunding Bonds may or
may not permit the holders to tender
their variable rate Refunding Bonds

6
for purchase by the City. If the Director of Finance designates any series
of Refunding Bonds as variable rate
Refunding Bonds, and if the Holders
of that series of Refunding Bonds are
to be entitled to tender those Refunding Bonds for purchase, then the
Director of Finance shall also designate for those variable rate Refunding Bonds (and may designate others,
from time to time, in substitution
therefor), the tender agent or agents
(which may be the Trustee) and the
remarketing agent or agents (which
may be any of the Original Purchasers), which designations shall be
based on the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed to
provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into agreements with
others in connection with the delivery
of the Refunding Bonds, and from
time to time thereafter so long as the
Refunding Bonds are outstanding, as
may be determined by the Director of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for (i) the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, (ii) the rights and procedures
for tender, (iii) liquidity or credit support, (iv) repayment by the City of
any amounts drawn under the Credit
Support Instrument, (v) the direct
purchase of tendered Refunding
Bonds, and (vi) other arrangements
in the best interests of the City. The
Director of Finance is further authorized to terminate any such agreements if the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the City’s best interests will be served
by such termination. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to enter
into agreements, from time to time so
long as the variable rate Refunding
Bonds are outstanding, supplementing or amending the applicable Supplemental Indenture for a series of
Refunding Bonds as provided in Section 8. To the extent that any fees and
expenses associated with agreements
entered into or terminated pursuant
to this Section are not paid from proceeds of Revenue Bonds, those fees
and expenses shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60
SF 106 and 60 SF 141 and/or passenger facility charges, as determined by
the Director of Finance after consultation with the Director of Port Control.
(b) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All Refunding Bonds shall be issued
in fully registered form. The Refunding Bonds initially shall be delivered
only in book-entry form, shall be registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of the
Depository, and shall not be transferable or exchangeable (except for
transfer to another Depository or its
nominee) without further action by
the City pursuant to the provisions of
the Trust Indenture.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Refunding Bonds of any series for use
in a book entry system, the Director of
Finance and the Trustee may attempt
to
establish
a
securities

The City Record
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance and the
Trustee do not or are unable to do so,
the Director of Finance and the
Trustee, after making provision for
notification of the beneficial owners
by the then Depository and any other
arrangements deemed necessary,
shall permit withdrawal of the
Refunding Bonds of any series from
the Depository, and authenticate and
deliver registered Bond certificates to
the assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of action or
inaction of the City, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into any agreements
determined by the Director to be necessary in connection with the book
entry system for the Refunding
Bonds, after determining that those
agreements will not endanger the
funds or securities of the City under
the Indenture (as evidenced by the
Director’s signing of those agreements).
(c) Dates; Denominations. The
Refunding Bonds of each series shall
be dated as of the date or dates provided in the Certificate of Award for
that series. The Refunding Bonds of
each series shall be issued in the
denominations permitted in the Supplemental Indenture for that series.
(d) Interest and Place of Payment.
The Refunding Bonds of each series
shall bear interest at their respective
interest rates specified in the Certificate of Award (or, in the case of variable rate Refunding Bonds, determined pursuant to the Supplemental
Indenture) for that series. Refunding
Bonds of the same series and same
maturity may bear interest at different interest rates. The Refunding
Bonds of each series shall bear interest from the most recent date to which
interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid
or duly provided for, from their date.
The principal and any redemption
premium and the interest payable on
each series of Refunding Bonds shall
be payable at the times, to the persons
and in the manner set forth in, or referenced by, the Supplemental Indenture, including, without limitation,
provisions thereof permitting special
arrangements for payments to the
Depository.
(e) Maturities. The Refunding
Bonds of each series shall mature on
the dates and in the respective principal amounts provided in the Certificate of Award, consistent with this
Ordinance and the Trust Indenture.
(f) Prior Redemption. The Refunding Bonds of each series may be subject to redemption prior to maturity at
the option of the City, if and to the
extent so provided in the Certificate
of Award for that series. Any Refunding Bonds so determined to be subject
to optional redemption and maturing
by their stated terms after the earliest
optional redemption date shall be subject to redemption at the option of the
City on or after the earliest optional
redemption date in whole or in part on
any date at the redemption prices provided in the Certificate of Award and
in accordance with the applicable
Supplemental Indenture and the
Trust Indenture. Any Refunding
Bonds so determined to be subject to a

1182

August 17, 2016
make whole optional redemption
intended to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment
resulting from the early redemption
shall be subject to redemption at the
option of the City pursuant to the formula or other methodology provided
in the Certificate of Award and in
accordance with the applicable Supplemental Indenture and the Trust
Indenture to provide for the make
whole redemption price. The Refunding Bonds may be subject to mandatory redemption prior to maturity on the
dates, or upon the occurrence of
events, and at the redemption prices
as determined and provided in the
Certificate of Award and applicable
Supplemental Indenture, including
without limitation, mandatory sinking fund redemption of term bonds on
each mandatory redemption date in
the aggregate amount of the sinking
fund installment to be paid on such
mandatory redemption date.
(g) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. The Refunding Bonds of each
Series may be subject to purchase by
the City in lieu of optional redemption
if and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award and the applicable Supplemental Indenture.
(h) Signing. The Refunding Bonds
shall be signed by the Mayor and the
Director of Finance, and approved as
to form by the Director of Law. Any or
all of the signatures of those officials
may be facsimiles. The Refunding
Bonds shall bear the corporate seal of
the City or a facsimile thereof.
(i) Numbering. The Refunding
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance.
Section 5. Award and Sale of
Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance shall sign
and deliver a Certificate of Award for
the Refunding Bonds. In the event the
Refunding Bonds are issued in more
than one series sold at different
times, a separate Certificate of Award
shall be signed and delivered for each
separately delivered series. The sale
of the Refunding Bonds shall be
awarded to the Original Purchasers
selected by the Director of Finance,
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Refunding Bonds, and
shall be identified in the Certificate
of Award. Each Certificate of Award
shall determine the following, based
on the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, consistent with this Ordinance and the Trust Indenture:
(a) the aggregate principal amount
of Refunding Bonds issued;
(b) the purchase price to be paid to
the City by those Original Purchasers, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount determined by adding to the aggregate
principal amount of the Refunding
Bonds any aggregate original issue
premium and subtracting from that
amount any aggregate original issue
discount, plus (ii) any accrued interest on the Refunding Bonds from
their date to the date of their delivery
to the Original Purchasers;
(c) whether the Refunding Bonds
are to be Tax-Exempt Bonds or Taxable Bonds and, if the Refunding
Bonds are Taxable Bonds, whether or
not they are Direct Payment Obligations;
(d) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be subject to redemption prior
to maturity, and, if so, the redemption

August 17, 2016
date or the event causing the prior
redemption for those Refunding
Bonds subject to prior redemption and
the redemption price, which may be
determined as a percentage of the
principal amount redeemed or by a
formula intended to make the bondholder whole for the loss of the investment resulting from the early redemption or by other methodology;
(e) the dates on which principal of
the Refunding Bonds is to be paid,
which shall be not later than thirty
(30) years from their respective dates
of issuance, with an identification of
whether the payment is due by stated
maturity or by mandatory sinking
fund redemption of Refunding Bonds
of a particular maturity;
(f) the interest rates to be borne by
Refunding Bonds bearing interest at
a fixed rate, the weighted average of
which shall not exceed six percent
(6%) as to Refunding Bonds of any
series that are Tax-Exempt Bonds, or
eight percent (8%) as to Refunding
Bonds of any Series that are Taxable
Bonds, or the method by which the
interest rate is to be determined for
Refunding Bonds bearing interest at
variable rates, consistent with Section 4;
(g) the particular Outstanding Revenue Bonds or portions thereof to be
Refunded Bonds;
(h) the title and series designation
for the Refunding Bonds;
(i) the amount, if any, and source of
any money to be deposited in the Bond
Service Reserve Fund in order to
cause the balance therein to equal the
Required Bond Service Reserve, if
and to the extent required by the
applicable Supplemental Indenture,
and any determination as to whether
there shall be a special reserve fund
for the Refunding Bonds of any
series, separate from the common
Bond Service Reserve Fund, or a surety or insurance policy, bank letter or
line of credit, or other form of credit
or Credit Facility enhancing the security for Refunding Bonds of that
series in lieu of a funded reserve fund;
(j) the amount, if any, and source of
any money to be deposited in the
Renewal and Replacement Fund in
order to cause the balance therein to
equal the Renewal and Replacement
Fund Requirement;
(k) the Paying Agent; and
(l) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be secured by or payable from a
Credit Support Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Refunding Bonds as so determined within the limitations set forth
in this Ordinance and as so specified
and set forth in the Certificate of
Award will be in the best interest of
the City and consistent with all legal
requirements.
The Director of Finance may enter
into one or more Bond Purchase
Agreements with the Original Purchasers of Refunding Bonds setting
forth the conditions for delivery of
the Refunding Bonds that are consistent with this Ordinance, the Certificate of Award, and the Trust Indenture and that are determined by the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
to be customary for airport revenue
bonds issued by governmental entities, including, without limitation,
representations as to the accuracy
and completeness of information contained in the Official Statement of the
City described in Section 13.

The City Record
Section 6. Application of Proceeds
of Refunding Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Refunding Bonds shall be applied as
provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, including:
(i) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instrument, the
fees and expenses required to be paid
by the City to obtain the Credit Support Instrument;
(ii) to the Bond Service Fund, any
proceeds constituting accrued interest and, unless other provision is
made in the Supplemental Indenture,
any proceeds to be used to pay interest on the Refunding Bonds;
(iii) to the Bond Service Reserve
Fund, any proceeds to be deposited in
that Fund in order to cause the balance therein to equal the Required
Bond Service Reserve, subject to the
provisions set forth in Section 5 (i) of
this Ordinance for a lesser or special
deposit;
(iv) to the Renewal and Replacement Fund, any proceeds to be
deposited in that Fund to cause the
balance therein to equal the Renewal
and Replacement Fund Requirement;
(v) to an escrow fund established
with the Trustee, any proceeds to be
deposited in escrow to pay the principal of and any premium and interest
on the Refunded Bonds;
(vi) to the counterparty under any
Hedge Agreement, any payment
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be paid from the proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds, including
any termination payment in the event
that the Director of Finance determines it is in the best interests of the
City to terminate a Hedge Agreement
relating to Outstanding Revenue
Bonds; and
(vii) to the Costs of Issuance Fund,
to be created under the applicable
Supplemental
Indenture,
such
amounts as are needed to pay costs of
issuing the Refunding Bonds and
refunding the Refunded Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Refunding Bonds are appropriated
and shall be used for the purpose for
which those Refunding Bonds are
issued as provided in this Ordinance.
Section 7. Refunding of Outstanding Revenue Bonds; Escrow Agreements.
The Director of Finance is authorized to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, one or more
escrow agreements between the City
and the Trustee, as escrow trustee,
providing for, among other matters:
the investment and holding in escrow
of the proceeds of the Refunding
Bonds to be applied to the refunding
of the Refunded Bonds; the application of the moneys derived from those
investments to the payment of the
Bond service charges on those
Refunded Bonds; and the irrevocable
call for redemption of those Outstanding Revenue Bonds identified in the
Certificate of Award to be Refunded
Bonds to be called for redemption
prior to maturity. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the escrow agreement
from proceeds of the Refunding
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose. Provision
shall be made in the escrow agree-

1183

7
ment to give the Trustee any written
notice of redemption required under
Section 4.03 of the Trust Indenture.
The Director of Finance and other
City officials as appropriate under
the Charter shall sign all documents
and take all other actions necessary
or appropriate on the part of the City
to effect such refunding in accordance with the Trust Indenture and to
cause the Refunded Bonds to be
deemed paid and discharged, including without limitation, the retention
of an independent firm of accountants
to verify the mathematical accuracy
of the calculations relating to the
escrow.
Section 8. Remarketing.
In the event that the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that it is advantageous to the City to
convert the interest on any Outstanding Revenue Bonds bearing interest
at variable rates to fixed interest
rates for a period of time or to maturity, or to convert the interest on any
Outstanding Revenue Bonds to a different variable rate period or mode, or
to terminate or take other actions
with respect to any existing Credit
Support Instrument that will require
a tender and remarketing of any Outstanding Revenue Bonds under the
Trust Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture for that series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds (such conversion or other actions and the tender and remarketing being collectively referred to in this Section as
“remarketing”), the City shall undertake the remarketing in accordance
with the Trust Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture for that series of
Outstanding Revenue Bonds. In connection with any remarketing of Revenue Bonds, the Director of Finance is
authorized to take such actions that
she determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, will
facilitate the remarketing of the Revenue Bonds or otherwise be in the
best interests of the City, including
without limitation, obtaining one or
more Credit Support Instruments, terminating any Credit Support Instrument, and entering into agreements
with one or more purchasers for their
direct purchase of the remarketed
Revenue Bonds in lieu of a public
offering of the Revenue Bonds by a
remarketing agent. In the event the
Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the Supplemental Indenture applicable to a
Series of Revenue Bonds to be remarketed in order to address current market conditions or to permit the use of
or to terminate a Credit Support
Instrument
or
otherwise
obtain
financing arrangements advantageous to the City, the Mayor, the
Director of Finance and the Director
of Port Control, or any two of them,
are authorized to sign and deliver an
amendment of that Supplemental
Indenture, or an amended and restated Supplemental Indenture, approved
as to form by the Director of Law, subject to the Trust Indenture.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized to satisfy the Required
Bond Service Reserve for the Revenue Bonds then outstanding under
the Trust Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture for that series of
Outstanding Revenue Bonds by the

8
deposit of a credit facility in lieu of
cash, as permitted and more specifically provided in the Trust Indenture,
and to apply cash released from the
Bond Service Reserve Fund to the
payment of costs of remarketing the
Revenue Bonds for which the interest
rate has been converted from variable
rates of interest to fixed rates of interest. To the extent the costs of remarketing are not paid from any cash
released from the Bond Service
Reserve Fund, those costs shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106 and 60 SF 141
and/or passenger facility charges, as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance after consultation with the
Director of Port Control.
The Director of Finance and the
Director of Port Control are authorized to prepare one or more disclosure documents in connection with
any conversion and remarketing
under the same terms and conditions
as set forth in Section 13 of this Ordinance with respect to Refunding
Bonds. The Director of Finance, the
Director of Port Control and other
City officials, as appropriate under
the Charter, are authorized to take
such actions or cause to be taken such
actions as are necessary to maintain
the status of any Outstanding Revenue Bonds as Tax-Exempt Bonds,
and the covenants and authorizations
in Section 11 of this Ordinance shall
apply to any converted Revenue
Bonds that are Tax-Exempt Bonds.
The Director of Finance, the Director
of Port Control and other City officials, as appropriate under the Charter, are authorized to sign and deliver
such instruments, certificates and
documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by this Section. The
Director of Finance, the Director of
Port Control, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate
under the Charter, are authorized to
make the necessary arrangements on
behalf of the City to establish the
date, location, procedure and conditions for the conversion and remarketing of any series of Outstanding
Revenue Bonds and to take all
actions necessary to effect the conversion and remarketing of any
series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds
under the terms of this Ordinance and
the Trust Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture for that series of
Outstanding Revenue Bonds. The
Clerk of Council shall furnish the
Remarketing Agent a true transcript
of proceedings certified by the Clerk
or other official, of all proceedings
had with reference to the conversion
and remarketing of any series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds along with
such information for the records as is
necessary to determine the validity of
the conversion and remarketing.
Section 9. Authorization of Supplemental Indentures and Amendments
of Trust Indenture.
In order to secure the payment of
the principal of and any premium and
interest on the Refunding Bonds, the
Mayor, the Director of Finance and
the Director of Port Control, or any
two of them, are authorized, in the
name and on behalf of the City, to
sign and deliver to the Trustee, in
trust for the Original Purchasers and
subsequent holders of the Refunding
Bonds, one or more Supplemental
Indentures, approved as to form by
the Director of Law, not inconsistent
with this Ordinance, the Certificate of

The City Record
Award and the Trust Indenture and
not substantially adverse to the City
as may be approved by the officers
signing the same on behalf of the
City. The determination by those officers that a Supplemental Indenture is
not substantially adverse to the City
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing and delivery of that Supplemental Indenture by those officers. Any Supplemental Indenture
may contain amendments to the Trust
Indenture
to
permit
the
City
increased flexibility for the use of
financial or credit structures and
techniques determined by the Director of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be in
the best interests of the City.
Section 10. Credit Support Instruments. The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract from time to
time for one or more Credit Support
Instruments for any series of Revenue Bonds or any Hedge Agreement
if the Director determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that the Credit Support
Instruments will result in savings to
the City, will stabilize interest rates
or minimize the risk of increased
interest expense or increased risks,
burdens, or other costs associated
with hedging arrangements or relating to Revenue Bonds or reserve
requirements.
The
Director
of
Finance is further authorized to
agree to the amendment, replacement, assignment or termination of
any Credit Support Instrument if the
Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the City’s best
interests will be served by such
amendment, replacement, assignment
or termination. In the event the Director of Finance determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the Trust Indenture or a Supplemental Indenture in
order to permit the use of, or to
amend, replace, assign or terminate, a
Credit Support Instrument, the Mayor
and the Director of Finance are authorized to sign and deliver a Supplemental Indenture amending the Trust
Indenture or an amendment of a Supplemental Indenture, approved as to
form by the Director of Law. The cost
of obtaining, amending, replacing,
assigning or terminating each Credit
Support Instrument, except to the
extent paid from proceeds of Revenue
Bonds or otherwise, shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104,
60  SF  105, 60 SF 106 and 60 SF 141
and/or passenger facility charges, as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance after consultation with the
Director of Port Control.
Section 11. Tax Covenants.
(a)
Tax-Exempt
Bonds.
With
respect to Refunding Bonds that are
to be issued and sold as Tax-Exempt
Bonds, the City covenants that:
(i) It will use, and will restrict the
use and investment of, the proceeds of
the Tax-Exempt Bonds in such manner and to such extent as may be necessary so that (A) the interest on the
Tax-Exempt Bonds will be excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, and (B) in the case of
any Tax-Exempt Bonds qualifying as
bonds, the interest on which is not
treated as an item of tax preference
under Section 57 of the Code (“NonAMT Bonds”), such Tax-Exempt
Bonds will be treated as Non-AMT
Bonds.

1184

August 17, 2016
(ii) It further covenants that (A) it
will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds
to be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, (B) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (C) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (1) apply the proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds to the governmental purposes of the borrowing, (2)
restrict the yield on investment property, (3) make timely and adequate
payments to the federal government,
(4) maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(5) refrain from certain uses of those
proceeds and, as applicable, of property financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
(b) Direct Payment Obligations.
With respect to any series of Refunding Bonds that are to be issued and
sold as Direct Payment Obligations,
the City covenants that:
(i) It will use, and will restrict the
use and investment of, the proceeds of
the Refunding Bonds in such manner
and to such extent as may be necessary so that the Refunding Bonds will
qualify as Direct Payment Obligations under the applicable provisions
of the Code.
(ii) It further covenants that (A) it
will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the Refunding Bonds to be and
remain Direct Payment Obligations,
(B) it will not take or authorize to be
taken any actions that would adversely affect that status, and (C) it, or persons acting for it, will, among other
acts of compliance, (1) apply or cause
the application of the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (2)
restrict yield on investment property,
(3) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (4)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports and (5)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such tax status.
(c) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Refunding Bonds, is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Refunding Bonds as the
City is permitted or required to make
or give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, the election to issue a series
of Refunding Bonds as Direct Payment Obligations, or any of the elections provided for in or available
under the Code for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting the
favorable tax treatment or status of
the Refunding Bonds or interest
thereon or entitlement to Direct Payments relating thereto, or assisting
compliance with requirements for
that purpose, reducing the burden or
expense of such compliance, reducing
the rebate amount or payments of
penalties, or making payments of special amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,

August 17, 2016
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and signed
by the officer, (b) to take any and all
other actions, make or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or
give reports, covenants and certifications of and on behalf of the City, as
may be appropriate to assure the
exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status of
the Refunding Bonds and the City’s
entitlement to receive Direct Payments, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Refunding Bonds,
setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the
amount and use of all the proceeds of
the Refunding Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Refunding Bonds.
Each covenant made in this Section
with respect to the Tax-Exempt
Bonds is also made with respect to all
issues any portion of the debt service
on which is paid from proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on
the Tax-Exempt Bonds from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above
are authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this Section to take with
respect to the Tax-Exempt Bonds.
Section 12. Additional Documents.
The Mayor, the Director of Finance,
the Director of Port Control and other
City officials as appropriate under
the Charter are authorized to sign and
deliver such instruments, certificates
and documents as are necessary or
appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by this Ordinance,
the Bond Purchase Agreements, the
Supplemental Indentures, the Trust
Indenture, the Escrow Agreements
and the Hedge Agreements.
The Director of Finance, the Director of Port Control, the Director of
Law and other City officials, as appropriate under the Charter, are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the City to establish the date, location, procedure and
conditions for the delivery of each
series of Refunding Bonds to the Original Purchasers and to take all
actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of
each series of Refunding Bonds under
the terms of this Ordinance, the Supplemental Indentures, the Bond Purchase Agreements and the Trust
Indenture. The Clerk of Council or
other officials of the City as appropriate under the Charter shall furnish
the Original Purchasers a true transcript of proceedings certified by the
Clerk or other official, of all proceedings had with reference to the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds
along with such information for the
records as is necessary to determine
the regularity and validity of the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds.
Section 13. Official Statements; Continuing Disclosure.
The Mayor, the Director of Finance,
the Director of Port Control and other

The City Record
City officials as appropriate under
the Charter, each is authorized on
behalf of the City to (i) prepare or
cause to be prepared, and make or
authorize modifications, completions
or changes of or supplements to, disclosure documents in the form of a
preliminary official statement relating to the issuance of the Refunding
Bonds of one or more series, and (ii)
determine, and certify or otherwise
represent, when each preliminary
official statement as so prepared is a
“deemed final” official statement
(except for permitted omissions) by
the City as of its date for purposes of
Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) Rule 15c2-12(b)(1). The distribution and use of one or more preliminary official statements are hereby authorized and approved.
Those officers and each of them are
also authorized, on behalf of the City
and in their official capacities, to
complete each preliminary official
statement with such modifications,
changes and supplements as those
officers shall approve or authorize for
the purpose of preparing and determining, and to certify or otherwise
represent, that the official statement
as so revised is a final official statement for purposes of SEC Rule 15c212(b) (3) and (4). Those officers each
are further authorized to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, one or more final official
statements and supplements thereto
in connection with the original
issuance of the Refunding Bonds as
may, in their judgment, be necessary
or appropriate. Those officers each
are further authorized to sign and
deliver, on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities, each final
official statement and such certificates in connection with the accuracy
of each preliminary official statement and each final official statement and any amendments thereto as
may, in their judgment, also be necessary or appropriate. The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
services for the production and distribution of preliminary and final official statements, including by printed
and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Refunding Bonds, the City agrees,
in accordance with, and as an obligated person with respect to the Refunding Bonds under, SEC Rule 15c2-12, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of SEC
Rule 15c2-12. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance and
the Director of Port Control are authorized to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Refunding Bonds in accordance with
SEC Rule 15c2-12. The performance of
that agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the City
would be required to incur to perform
it.

1185

9
Section 14. Lien of Pledge.
The Airport Revenues are subject
to the lien of the pledge under the
Trust Indenture without any physical
delivery of the Airport Revenues or
further act, and the lien of such
pledge is valid and binding against
all parties having claims of any kind
against the City (irrespective of
whether such parties have notice of
such pledge and create a perfected
security interest for all purposes of
Chapter 1309, Ohio Revised Code)
without the necessity for separation
of delivery of the Airport Revenues or
for the filing or recording of the Trust
Indenture or any other resolution or
instrument by which such pledge is
created or any certificate, statement
or other document with respect to
such pledge. The pledge of the Airport Revenues under the Trust Indenture shall be effective and the money
therefrom and thereof may be applied
to the purposes for which pledged
without necessity for any further act
of appropriation.
Section 15. Financial Advisors and
Consultants.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required by
this Ordinance to be determined by
the Director of Finance or to negotiate any Hedge Agreements. The
Director of Finance may rely on the
written advice of any Financial Advisor so retained. The Director of Port
Control may obtain the services of
one or more feasibility consultants,
from time to time, to provide reports
in connection with the issuance and
sale of any Refunding Bonds or the
delivery of any Hedge Agreements
concerning the utilization and operation of the Airport System, debt service coverage, rates and charges or
other matters. Any Financial Advisor
or consultant employed under the
authority of this Ordinance shall be
disinterested in the transaction and
be independent of the underwriters or
counterparties and any other party
interested in the transaction.
Section 16. Appointment of Successor Trustee.
The Director of Finance is hereby
authorized to appoint a successor
Trustee in the event that the current
Trustee, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., shall resign
or be removed, or be dissolved or otherwise become incapable of acting as
Trustee under the Trust Indenture, or
in case it shall be taken under the control of any public officer or officers or
of a receiver appointed by a court, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 12.08 of the Trust Indenture.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all
formal actions of the Council concerning and relating to the adoption of
this Ordinance were adopted in an
open meeting of the Council, and that
all deliberations of the Council and of
any of its committees that resulted in
such formal action were in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all applicable legal requirements.
Section 18. Separability.
Each section of this Ordinance and
each subdivision of any section is
declared to be independent, and the
finding or holding of any section or
subdivision of any section to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed or

10
held to affect the validity of any other
section or subdivision of this Ordinance.
Section 19. Recitals.
It is determined and recited that all
acts, conditions and things necessary
to be done precedent to and in the
issuing of the Refunding Bonds in
order to make the same legal, valid
and binding special obligations
issued by the City of Cleveland, Ohio
will have happened, been done and
performed or will happen, be done and
performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, is
applicable to the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds.
Section 20. Sunset of Authorization.
The authority granted by Section 2
of this Ordinance to issue Refunding
Bonds shall expire three years from
the effective date of this Ordinance. If
a preliminary official statement with
respect to the issuance of a series of
Refunding Bonds is distributed under
the authority of this Ordinance at any
time within the three-year period following its effective date, then the
authority granted by this Ordinance
shall not expire as to that series of
Refunding Bonds. The Director of
Finance shall notify the Chairman of
the Finance Committee and the Clerk
of this Council of the initiation of the
issuance of any Refunding Bonds
under the authority of this Ordinance.
Section 21. Emergency.
That this ordinance is declared to
be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and
be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in
force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 910-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
exercise the first options to renew
various contracts for the requirements for services and materials necessary to maintain and repair pumps,
motors, controls, transformers, circuit
breakers, switchgear, and appurtenances, including but not limited to
inspection, supplies, repairing and
testing for the Division of Water.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 803-14, passed July 16,
2014, the Director of Public Utilities
entered into Contract Nos. RC 2015-4
with Buckeye Pumps Inc, RC 2015-5
and RC 2015-89 with Al’s High Tech,
Inc. dba Al’s Electric Motor Service,
and RC 2015-8 with Magnetech Industrial Services, Inc., for the requirements for services and materials necessary to maintain and repair pumps,
motors, controls, transformers, circuit
breakers, switchgear, and appurtenances, including but not limited to
inspection, supplies, repairing and
testing for the Division of Water; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 803-14
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
these contracts; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to exercise
the first option to renew Contract Nos.
RC 2015-4 with Buckeye Pumps Inc,
RC 2015-5 and RC 2015-89 with Al’s
High Tech, Inc. dba Al’s Electric
Motor Service, and RC 2015-8 with
Magnetech Industrial Services, Inc. in
the total approximate amount of
$445,000 for the requirements for services and materials necessary to
maintain and repair pumps, motors,
controls, transformers, circuit breakers, switchgear, and appurtenances,
including but not limited to inspection, supplies, repairing and testing
for the Division of Water. That this
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 803-14 to exercise these
options. (RQN 2002, RL 2016-27)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 911-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. RCD 2015-11 with the Hach
Company to maintain, service, calibrate, refurbish, and test various scientific and in-line process analytical
instruments used to monitor the
drinking water purification process.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1187-14, passed October
6, 2014, the Director of Public Utilities
entered into Contract No. RCD 2015-11
with the Hach Company to maintain,
service, calibrate, refurbish, and test
various scientific and in-line process
analytical instruments manufactured
by the Hach Company used to monitor
the drinking water purification
process; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1187-14
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to exercise
the first option to renew Contract No.
RCD 2015-11 for an additional year at
a cost not to exceed $151,979.56, with
the Hach Company to maintain, service, calibrate, refurbish, and test various scientific and in-line process analytical instruments manufactured by
the Hach Company used to monitor
the drinking water purification
process. This ordinance constitutes
the additional legislative authority
required by Ordinance No. 1187-14 to
exercise this option. (RQS 2002, RL
2016-69)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take

1186

August 17, 2016
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 912-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
exercise the first options to renew
Contract No. RCD 2015-12 with Hach
Company and Contract No. RCD 201510 with HSQ Technology, A Corporation, for the requirements to maintain
and replace proprietary components
of control systems for the Division of
Water.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 796-14, passed July 16,
2014, the Director of Public Utilities
entered into Contract No. RCD 2015-12
with Hach Company and Contract No.
RCD 2015-10 with HSQ Technology, A
Corporation, for the requirements to
maintain and replace proprietary
components of control systems for the
Division of Water; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 796-14
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
these contracts; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to exercise
the first options to renew Contract No.
RCD 2015-12 with Hach Company and
Contract No. RCD 2015-10 with HSQ
Technology, A Corporation, for the
requirements for an additional year
in the approximate total amount of
$400,000, to maintain and replace proprietary components of control systems for the Division of Water. That
this ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 796-14 to exercise
these options. (RQN 2002, RL 2016-26)
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 913-16.
By Council Members Dow, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to transfer Permanent Parcel
Nos. 118-06-028, 118-06-029, and 118-06049 located between East 65th Street
and East 66th Street fronting Euclid
Avenue, to the control, possession,
and use of the Department of Economic Development Industrial Commercial Land Bank for future redevelopment.
Whereas, the Department of Community Development desires to transfer certain property under its control

August 17, 2016
in the City Land Bank to the Department of Economic Development
Industrial Commercial Land Bank;
and
Whereas, Section 183.14 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, requires that such transfer be
preceded by an ordinance of Council
approving the transfer; and
Whereas, the property to be transferred will become a component of the
City of Cleveland’s Industrial Land
Reutilization Program, and, as such,
will be regulated by Chapter 5722 of
the Revised Code and Section 183.021
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, regarding acquisition and disposition of the property;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section 183.14
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Community Development is authorized to
transfer Permanent Parcel Nos. 11806-028, 118-06-029, and 118-06-049 located between East 65th Street and East
66th Street fronting Euclid Avenue, to
the control, possession, and use of the
Department of Economic Development Industrial Commercial Land
Bank for future redevelopment.
Section 2. That on consummation of
the transfer referenced above, the
directors participating in the transaction shall initial and date a copy of
this ordinance and deliver the copy to
the custody of the Division of Property Management of the Department of
Public Works.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Economic Development, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
Ord. No. 914-16.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a forgivable loan
agreement with Burten Bell Carr
Development, Inc., or its designee, to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance capital,
parking lot, and site improvements at
Arbor Park Place located at the southwest corner of East 40th Street and
Community College Avenue, to assist
with management of the center, and
other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter a forgivable loan agreement
with Burten Bell Carr Development,

The City Record
Inc., or its designee, in an amount of
$400,000, to partially finance capital,
parking lot, and site improvements at
Arbor Park Place located at the southwest corner of East 40th Street and
Community College Avenue, to assist
with management of the center, and
other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the property.
Section 2. That the summary for the
loan, File No. 914-16-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept such collateral as the director
determines is sufficient in order to
secure repayment of the loan.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment of the
loan and to deposit the monies in
Fund Nos. 17 SF 006.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
fees under federal regulations and
the fees are appropriated to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
the loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 6. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 7. The contract authorized
in this legislation will require the
recipient of financial assistance to
work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts, and
place special emphasis on the hard to
employ, including but not limited to
the disabled and persons who have
been convicted of or have pled guilty
to a criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 8. That the costs of any
funding under this ordinance shall
not exceed $400,000, and shall be paid
from Fund No. 17 SF 008, RQS 9501, RL
2016-85.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 915-16.
By Council Members Zone, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. 67924 and the Promissory
Note with Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization, or
their designee, for the historical renovation of the Capitol Theatre, to allow

1187

11
for a deferral of principal and interest
from September 1, 2015 until July 31,
2016, and other contract modifications.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 142007, passed October 1, 2007, as amended, this Council authorized a loan to
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization for the historical renovation of the Capitol Theatre
at 1400 West 65th Street, Contract
67924; and
Whereas, the Director of Economic
Development and Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization wish to amend the repayment
terms of the loan and to amend the
Promissory Note; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 67924 and the Promissory Note
with Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization, or their
designee, for the historical renovation of the Capitol Theatre, to allow
for a deferral of principal and interest
from September 1, 2015 until July 31,
2016, and other contract modifications
as identified in the summary placed
in File No. 915-16-A. All other terms of
the loan shall remain the same.
Section 2. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the amendment.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 916-16.
By Council Members Kelley, K.
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Noel Caraballo to
encroach into the public right-of-way
of West 16th Street by installing,
using, and maintaining an asphalt
drive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Noel Caraballo, 1507 West
Schaaf Road, Cleveland Ohio 44109
(“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way of West 16th
Street by installing, using, and maintaining an asphalt driveway at the
following location:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of the Broadview Company’s Broadlawn Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lots 77 & 78 as shown in
Volume 101, Page 2 of the Cuyahoga

12
County
Map
Records,
further
described as follows:
Being the Easterly 20 feet of unimproved West 16th Street (40.00 feet
wide) (formerly known as Highway
Avenue) extending from the south
line of West Schaaf Road southerly
120.00 feet.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
Director of Law determines necessary
to protect and benefit the public interest. The permit shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of
Law, the prospective Permittee has
properly indemnified the City against
any loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 3. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 917-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio for rehabilitating the
Martin Luther King, Jr. bridge over
Doan Brook; to apply for and accept
any gifts or grants from any public or
private entity; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
any relative agreements; and causing
payment of the City’s share to the
State for the cost of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: rehabilitating the Martin Luther King, Jr.
bridge over Doan Brook, Bridge No.

The City Record
5:029M, PID 98548 (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $360,000, but the estimated
amount is to be adjusted in order that
the City’s ultimate share of the
Improvement shall correspond with
the percentages of actual costs when
the actual costs are determined.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 4. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 5. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 6. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 7. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the

1188

August 17, 2016
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
8.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept any gifts or grants for this
purpose from any public or private
entity, including but not limited to
NOACA; and that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 10. That, when appropriate,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the railroads, Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
District and other entities to obtain
services or to acquire property rights
such as easements and licenses, necessary to construct the improvements
described in this ordinance.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from public or private entities, for infrastructure
restoration costs associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the
improvement.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any agreements necessary to
implement the improvement.
Section 13. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 14. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, 20
SF 563, 20 SF 568, and 20 SF 574, and
any all funds approved by the Director of Finance, including future bond
funds if issued for this purpose,
Request No. RQS 0103, RL 2016-83.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.

August 17, 2016
Ord. No. 918-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio to rehabilitate the St.
Casmir Way Bridge over Doan Brook;
authorizing any other relative agreements; and to cause payment to the
State for the City’s share of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the following improvement
under plans, specifications, and estimates approved by the State: rehabilitate the St. Casmir Way Bridge over
Doan Brook, Bridge No. 5:033M, PID
No. 102532 (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation. The City agrees to assume
one hundred percent (100%) of the
cost of preliminary engineering,
right-of-way and environmental documentation. Also, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the construction contract at the request of
the City, which are determined by the
State not eligible or made necessary
by the Improvement. The share of the
cost of the City is estimated in the
amount of $41,030, but the estimated
cost is to be adjusted in order that the
City’s ultimate share of the improvement shall correspond with the percentages of actual costs when the
actual costs are determined.
Section 3. Utilities and Right-ofWay Statement. The City agrees to
acquire and/or make available to
ODOT, under current State and Federal regulations, all necessary right-ofway required for the Improvement.
The City also understands that rightof-way costs include eligible utility
costs. The City agrees to be responsible for all utility accommodation,
relocation, and reimbursement and
agrees that all such accommodations,
relocations,
and
reimbursements
shall comply with the current provisions of 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 4. Maintenance. Upon completion of the Improvement, and
unless otherwise agreed, the City
shall: (1) provide adequate maintenance for the Improvement under all
applicable state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, 23 USC
116; (2) provide ample financial provisions, as necessary, for the maintenance of the Improvement; (3) maintain the right-of-way, keeping it free
of obstructions; and (4) hold said
right-of-way inviolate for public highway purposes.
Section 5. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
contracts with ODOT pre-qualified

The City Record
consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Improvement
and to enter into contracts with the
Director of Transportation necessary
to complete the above described project. Upon the request of ODOT, the
Director of Capital Projects is also
authorized to assign all rights, title,
and interests of the City to ODOT arising from any agreement with its consultant in order to allow ODOT to
direct additional or corrective work,
recover damages due to errors or
omissions, and to exercise all other
contractual rights and remedies
afforded by law or equity.
Section 6. That the City agrees that
if Federal Funds are used to pay the
cost of any consultant contract, the
City shall comply with 23 CFR 172 in
the selection of its consultant and the
administration of the consultant contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section
7.
That
this
Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 8. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to implement the Improvement.
Section 9. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of the
City’s share of the Improvement in
the estimated sum of $41,030 from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, 20
SF 563, 20 SF 568, and 20 SF 574, and
any and all funds approved by the
Director of Finance, including future
bond funds, if issued for this purpose,
Request No. RQS 0103, RL 2016-84.
Section 10. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
Ord. No. 919-16.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 675A.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 979-13,
passed July 10, 2013, to limit the times
during which street performers may
perform in order to minimize excessive noise in the evenings and mornings for residents.

1189

13
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 675A.02 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, as enacted by Ordinance
No. 979-13, passed July 10, 2013, is
amended as follows:
Section 675A.02 Performances Permitted: Conditions
(a)(1) Any person may perform in a
public place except as may be otherwise provided in this chapter.
(2) Any person may perform on private property if the performer has
obtained written permission from the
owner of the property or other person
with authority to grant permission
with respect to the property. Such permission shall be carried by the performer at all times unless the owner
of the property or other person with
authority has granted permission and
is present at the performance.
(b) Performers may perform during
the following times:
(1) Between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 9:00 p.m. on Sundays through
Thursdays;
(2) Between the hours of 10:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays; and
(3) Between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 11:00 p.m. during permitted special events, parades, and festivals.
(c) Performers may accept contributions of money or property in any
type of receptacle.
Section 2. That existing Section
675A.02 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 979-13, passed July 10,
2013, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Safety,
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 920-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with American Legal
Publishing Corporation for the professional services necessary to provide all necessary supplemental or
replacement pages to the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances, to provide
webhosting services and regular online updates to the Charter and the
Code, to provide an annual review and
comparison to Code Parts IV and VI to
the Ohio Revised Code, and other services as may be deemed necessary for
Code supplementation, and to authorize any amendments to the contract
that may be necessary for additional
printings of the Codified Ordinances
during the term.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

The City Record

14
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
(“Clerk”) is authorized to enter into
an agreement with American Legal
Publishing Corporation (“Consultant”) for the professional services
necessary to provide all necessary
supplemental or replacement pages to
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
(together, the “Code”), to provide
webhosting services and regular online updates to the Code, to provide an
annual review and comparison of
Code Parts IV and VI to the Ohio
Revised Code, and any other services
as may be necessary for continued
and efficient Code supplementation,
and to authorize any amendments to
the contract that may be necessary
during the term in order to provide
additional printings of the Charter
and/or the Code, and additional
binders, inserts and labels
The contract shall begin as of
August 24, 2016 and shall continue for
one year; the Clerk may exercise four
(4) separate options to renew any or
all portions of the agreement for additional one year periods, cancelable
upon 30 days’ written notice by the
Clerk. Payment for services completed under the agreement, and any
amendments to the agreement during
the original term or the term of any
exercised renewal shall be from Fund
No. 01 SF 001.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 921-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
one or more internship agreements
with various individuals to provide
assistance to the Office of the Clerk
and the members of Cleveland City
Council in any and all matters related
to official Council business.

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into one or more
internship agreements with various
individuals to provide assistance to
the Office of the Clerk and the members of Cleveland City Council in any
and all matters related to official
Council business, as may be directed
by the Clerk or her designees. The
agreements may be for terms of any
number of weeks starting on or after
September 1, 2016 and ending on or
before September 30, 2017. The individuals shall be paid on an hourly
basis in an amount up to and not to
exceed $15.00 per hour and shall be
certified from fund number 01, subfund 001, department 0101, object 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 922-16.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance designating Cedar Avenue between East 36th
Street and Stokes Boulevard with a
secondary and honorary designation
of “Don King Way”; and repealing
Ordinance No. 473-16, passed April 25,
2016, that designated Shaker Blvd.
between East 116th Street and East
121st Street with a secondary and honorary designation of “Don King
Way”.
Whereas, Donald “Don” King, a
true Native Son of Cleveland, was
born in Cleveland, Ohio on August 20,
1931, and is an American boxing promoter who has been involved in some
of boxing’s most historic matchups;
and,
Whereas, Mr. King graduated from
John Adams High, entered the boxing

August 17, 2016
world after convincing Muhammad
Ali to box in a hospital charity exhibition in Cleveland, and later purchased and published the Call and
Post in Cleveland; and,
Whereas, the Don King Foundation
has donated millions of dollars to worthy causes, as a reminder of the economic hardships he endured growing
up, and Mr. King has gone into neighborhoods every holiday season and
personally handed out turkeys to
needy families in Cleveland and other
cities across the nation; and
Whereas, Mr. King has been
bestowed with many honors, including the Black Achievement Award,
being named Man of the Year by the
Black United Fund and Brotherhood
Crusade, the Martin Luther King Jr.
Humanitarian Award, the NAACP’s
President’s Award, and other prestigious awards; and
Whereas, the citizens of Cleveland
want to honor Don King with a street
sign designation of “Don King Way”
in recognition of his decades long
business and philanthropic efforts
here and across the nation; and,
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure for the immediate preservation of public peace,
property, health or safety; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Cedar Avenue
between East 36th Street and Stokes
Boulevard is designated with a secondary and honorary designation of
“Don King Way”.
Section 2. That Ordinance No. 47316, passed April 25, 2016, that designated Shaker Blvd. between East
116th Street and East 121st Street
with a secondary and honorary designation of “Don King Way,” is
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 928-16.
By Council Member Dow.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of parcels along the west side of East 66th Street
between Linwood Avenue and Belvidere Avenue to ‘Single Family’ (1F) Use District, a ‘1’ Height District, and
an ‘A’ Height District as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2542).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of Linwood Avenue and East 66th Place;
Thence southerly along the centerline of East 66th Place to its intersection with the centerline of Quimby Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the westerly line of sublot
6 in the L.W. Sapp subdivision as recorded in Cuyahoga County Map Records Volume 3 Page 44;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the centerline of Belvidere Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of East 66th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Linwood Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline to the place of origin;
And as shaded on the attached map are changed to a Single Family (1F) District, an “A” Area District, and a “1” Height
District.
Section 2. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2542, and
shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on
file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1190

August 17, 2016

The City Record

15

PPPP

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 907-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution accepting the amounts and rates as determined by the Cuyahoga County Budget Commission and authorizing the necessary tax levies and certifying them to the County Fiscal Officer.
Whereas, this Council, under the provisions of law, has adopted a Tax Budget for the fiscal year commencing
January 1, 2017; and
Whereas, the Budget Commission of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, has certified its action on the Tax Budget to this
Council together with an estimate by the County Fiscal Officer of the rate of each tax necessary to be levied by
this Council and what part is within and what part is outside the 10-mill tax limitation; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the amounts and rates as determined by the Budget Commission in its certification are accepted.
Section 2. That there is levied on the tax duplicate of the City of Cleveland the rate of each tax necessary to
be levied within and without the 10-mill tax limitation, as follows:

1191

The City Record

16

August 17, 2016

SCHEDULE A
SUMMARY OF AMOUNTS REQUIRED FROM GENERAL PROPERTY
TAX APPROVED BY BUDGET COMMISSION
AND COUNTY AUDITOR’S ESTIMATE TAX RATES

Fund

Amount to

Amount

be Derived

Approved By

From Levies

Budget Commission

Rate To Be Levied

Outside 10-Mill

Inside 10-Mill

Inside 10-Mill

Outside 10-Mill

Limitation

Limitation

Limitation

Limitation

Column II

Column IV

Column V

Column VI

-----

7.75

GENERAL FUND
GENERAL

County Auditor’s Estimate of Tax

BOND
4.35

-----

POLICE PENSION FUND

RETIREMENT FUND

-----

0.30

FIRE PENSION FUND

0.05

0.25

TOTAL

4.40

8.30

Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is directed to certify a copy of this resolution to the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That this resolution is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

Res. No. 908-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution requesting the County Fiscal Officer to
make advances during the year
2017, pursuant to Section 321.34, Ohio
Revised Code.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
321.34 of the Revised Code, the County Fiscal Officer is hereby requested to draw, and the County Treasurer to pay on draft or drafts made
payable to the Treasury of the City
of Cleveland, any money that may
be in the County Treasury from time
to time during the year 2017 and
credited to the account of the City
of Cleveland and lawfully applicable to the purpose of the 2017 fiscal
year,
during
which
year
such
request will be made. The payments
are to be made from time to time in
accordance with the schedule set by
Cuyahoga County.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a certified copy
of this resolution to the County Fiscal
Officer.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

Res. No. 923-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution supporting House Bill 579, in the 131st Ohio
General Assembly, to make supplemental appropriations to the Department of Transportation in order to
provide political subdivisions with
funding for critical road maintenance repairs.
Whereas, House Bill 579 was
introduced in the Ohio House of
Representatives on May 25, 2016,
and sponsored by Representatives
Martin J. Sweeney and Mike Ashford; and
Whereas, House Bill 579 makes
supplemental appropriations to the
Department of Transportation in
order to provide political subdivisions with funding for critical road
maintenance repairs; and
Whereas, the bill appropriates
$150 million to the newly created
Road Maintenance Fund to be used
by the Director of Transportation to
distribute funding to political subdivisions for critical road maintenance repairs; and
Whereas, state funding that a
political subdivision receives under
this appropriation item shall be distributed in a way so that the state
provides fifty percent of the project
funding, while the political subdivision will be responsible for the
remaining fifty percent of the project funding; and
Whereas, this Council recognizes
the dire need for state funding for
critical road maintenance repairs,
and supports House Bill 579 to provide these supplemental funds to
benefit citizens of Cleveland and
Ohio municipalities; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

1192

a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports House Bill 579, in the 131st
Ohio General Assembly, to make
supplemental appropriations to the
Department of Transportation in
order to provide political subdivisions with funding for critical road
maintenance repairs.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Representatives Martin
J. Sweeney and Mike Ashford, the
Ohio House of Representatives.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
Res. No. 987-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution urging
the Director of Capital Projects to
establish and consult with the Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee in order to carry out the
goals of the Complete and Green
Streets ordinance, Climate Action
Plan, Master Bikeway Implementation Plan, and other plans that
impact biking and walking.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland is
striving to promote high level of
bicycle use for transportation and
recreation through the passage of
the Complete and Green Streets
Ordinance No. 798-11, passed September 19, 2011 and effective January 1, 2011; and

August 17, 2016
Whereas, this ordinance provides
for the consideration of Complete
and Green Street elements in all
construction projects within the public right-of-way; and
Whereas,
Complete
and
Green
Streets address the livability and
environmental needs of our community with multipurpose streets that
better
accommodate
walkers,
cyclists, and public transportation
while reducing the environmental
impact of our transportation infrastructure by incorporating green
infrastructure strategies to reduce
waste, storm water run-off and energy consumption; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has also adopted a Bikeway Master
Plan, Bikeway Implementation Plan
and numerous other planning studies
that
outline
strategies
for
improving our city for people to ride
a bicycle; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has developed a substantial system
of bicycle facilities to enhance and
encourage the use of bicycles as a
healthy, efficient mode of transportation having minimal environmental impact; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
wishes to enhance the use of bicycles for transportation and recreation by promoting efforts in the
areas of bicycle education, enforcement, engineering and encouragement; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has adopted a Climate Action Plan
that includes goals to increase bicycle ridership and improve safety;
and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has adopted a district-wide Safe
Routes to School Travel plan that
includes strategies and programs to
increase the number of students biking to school safely; and
Whereas, Cleveland has successfully launched a large scale, formal
bike share system that will increase
ridership and provide empirical data
that will guide future bicycle facility planning and maintenance; and
Whereas,
many
residents
and
organizations in Cleveland possess
knowledge and expertise in the
areas of bicycle transportation and
recreation which would be beneficial to the City administration; and
Whereas, the Complete and Green
Streets ordinance authorized the
Director of Capital Projects to consult
an
advisory
committee
to
include representatives of all effected City Departments, Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District, Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, and the Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency to review
the improvement and any requests
for exemptions from the Complete
and Green Streets guidelines and,
upon consultation with other City
Departments and the Council Member in the affected ward, approve
exemptions where appropriate; and
Whereas, in addition to reviewing
improvement exemptions from the
Complete and Green Streets guidelines, the Bicycle and Pedestrian
Advisory Committee will recommend
policies
to
improve
safety
and
encourage more Clevelanders to ride
bikes and walk, and encourage
input from citizens and local advocates; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
is committed to working with the
Director of Capital Projects and the

The City Record

17

Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee to create a network of
Complete and Green Streets that
will improve the economic, environmental and social well-being of citizens; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Director of Capital Projects to
establish and consult with the Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee in order to carry out the
goals of the Complete and Green
Streets ordinance, Climate Action
Plan, Master Bikeway Implementation Plan, and other plans that
impact biking and walking.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit a copy
of this resolution to Jacob VanSickle,
Executive Director, Bike Cleveland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 925-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by initiative petition).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of an initiative
petition proposing to amend the Charter of the City of Cleveland by enacting new Sections 204 through 214,
relating to City of Cleveland PartTime Workers’ Rights.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health, and
safety in that it must be certified to
the election authorities immediately
in order for the question to appear at
a special election to be held on November 8, 2016, and providing for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland at a special election to be held at the usual places of
voting in the City of Cleveland on
Tuesday, November 8, 2016, of an initiated proposal to amend the Charter
of the City of Cleveland by enacting
new Sections 204, 205, 206, 207, 208, 209,
210, 211, 212, 213 and 214 to read as follows:

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED

SECTION 204. CREATION OF THE
PART-TIME WORKERS’ RIGHTS
COMMISSION
Promoting a healthy, prosperous
economy is important to the City and
to the quality of life for its residents.
Part-time employment opportunities
that provide a dependable and predictable source of income are a key
element of such an economy, especially for those who need to schedule and
pay for child and elder care. Treating
part-time workers with the same
respect and dignity as those who
work full-time is important to the
financial and emotional well-being of
employees.
In order to foster these kinds of
desirable
part-time
employment
opportunities for its residents, the
City hereby affirms the following:
economic productivity is increased
when employers have access to a reliable, trained and enthusiastic workforce; economic success is increased
when employees are invested in a positive outlook for their employer;
employees perform better when they
can coordinate their work and personal schedules in advance in order to
adequately address work and personal responsibilities; employees perform better when they can rely on a
predictable source of income with
which to meet their financial obligations; and employees experience
greater job satisfaction when they
feel their contributions to the employer are valued equally to that of the
other employees, regardless of status
as full-time or part-time.
For the purpose of establishing
oversight and workplace standards
that support the productivity and economic success of employers and
enhance the ability of part-time
employees to perform at their highest
potential, the Part-Time Workers’
Rights Commission is hereby established.

Ord. No. 924-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with Saint Martin De
Porres High School Work Study Program to participate as a sponsor of
students for work/study positions
with Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with Saint Martin De Porres
High School Work Study Program to
participate as a sponsor of students
for work/study positions with Cleveland City Council. This agreement
shall be entered into as of August 1,
2016 and shall terminate July 31, 2017.
Cleveland City Council shall provide
sponsorship for up to four students at
a time during the term. The agreement shall be certified for $34,600.00
and shall be certified from fund number 01, subfund 001, department 0101,
object 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

1193

City Of Cleveland
Part-Time Workers’ Rights

18
SECTION 205. COMPOSITION OF
THE COMMISSION
The Commission shall be composed
of five (5) individuals who shall be
appointed by the City Council to serve
without compensation. Appointments
shall be for a term of two years or
until their respective successors shall
have been appointed and duly qualified. Such members shall be appointed in such manner as to create staggered terms. If a vacancy occurs for
any reason, the City Council shall fill
the unexpired term. Two members of
the Commission shall be representative of employers, two members shall
be
representative
of
part-time
employees, and one member shall represent the general public.
For purposes of Sections 204 to 214,
the following terms have the following meanings: “part-time” shall mean
employed on an hourly basis fewer
than forty (40) hours per work week;
“full-time” shall mean employed for
forty (40) or more hours per work
week; and “employer” shall mean any
individual, corporation, partnership,
association, labor organization, legal
representative,
mutual
company,
joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, trustee, trustee in
bankruptcy, receiver, fiduciary and
other organizations, including corporate officers or executives, who
directly or indirectly or through an
agent or any other person, including
through the services of a temporary
services or staffing agency or similar
entity, employ or exercise control
over the wages, hours or working conditions of any individual.
SECTION 206. DUTIES OF THE
COMMISSION
The Commission shall have the
power, authority, and duty to:
1. Advise and consult with the City
Council on all matters involving
workplace policies and conditions for
part-time employees.
2. Serve in an advisory and consultative capacity to the City Council to
assure effective compliance with fair
part-time workplace policies and
requirements and recommend to the
City measures aimed at improving
the ability of the City to promote equitable and practical working conditions for all part-time employees.
3. Recommend to the City Council
legislation
to
aid
in
progress
designed to comply with and further
the purposes of Sections 204 to 214 and
encourage community support for
such legislation.
4. Receive complaints from any
complainant concerning alleged violations of Sections 204 to 214. The
Commission shall, upon the receipt of
such complaints, investigate and
report to the City Council in writing
the facts, findings and recommendations after using persuasion, mediation and conciliation in accordance
with the rules of the Commission as
approved by the City Council in an
attempt to provide mutual understanding and satisfaction of the problem involved.
5. Enforce the workplace requirements under Sections 204 to 214 and
make recommendations to the City
Council for any amendments as may
be needed over time to promote the
continued effective administration of
these sections.
6. Conduct research and obtain factual data to ascertain the status of
part-time employment in the City and
periodically evaluate the impact and

The City Record
effectiveness of the requirements of
Sections 204 to 214.
7. Cooperate with all city, state,
county, federal, and other governmental agencies with resources helpful in
achieving mutual appreciation and
support of the social and economic
benefits of fair part-time employment
conditions and full utilization of
human resources.
8. Employ staff as needed to effectively carry out its duties required
under this section.
SECTION 207. ADVANCE NOTICE
OF
WORK
SCHEDULES
AND
CHANGES IN WORK SCHEDULES
An employer shall provide any parttime employee with a good faith estimate via email or text message as
well as in writing of the employee’s
expected minimum number of scheduled shifts, and the days and hours of
those shifts. This estimate shall
include on-call shifts, where “on-call”
means any work shift for which an
employee must work on less than
forty-eight (48) hours’ notice. The
estimate shall not constitute a contractual offer and the employer shall
not be bound by the estimate.
An employer shall provide its parttime employees who request it with at
least two weeks’ notice of their work
schedules by doing either one of the
following at least every fourteen (14)
days: posting the work schedule in a
conspicuous place at the workplace
that is readily accessible and visible
to the requesting employees; or transmitting the work schedule by email or
text, so long as the requesting
employees are given access to the
electronic schedule at the workplace.
For
part-time
employees
who
request it, an employer shall provide
the employee on his or her first day of
employment with an initial work
schedule that runs through the date
that the next biweekly schedule for
existing employees is scheduled to be
posted or distributed. For all requesting employees, the work schedule
shall include any on-call shifts, where
applicable.
An employer may not require a
part-time employee to be on-call,
except for one mutually agreed-to
shift per week. Either party may cancel that shift without repercussion or
penalty as long as the cancellation
occurs at least (48) forty-eight hours
before the on-call shift is to start.
An employer shall provide a parttime employee notice of any change
to the employee’s schedule that has
been posted or transmitted pursuant
to this section. The employer shall
provide such notice by email or text
message as well as in writing. This
notice requirement shall not apply to
any schedule changes requested by
the employee, such as employeerequested sick leave, time off, shift
trades, or additional shifts.
The requirements of this section
shall not apply under any of the following circumstances:
1. When operations cannot begin or
continue due to threats to employees
or property, or when civil authorities
recommend that work not begin or
continue;
2. When operations cannot begin or
continue because public utilities fail
to supply electricity, water, or gas, or
there is a failure in a public utility or
sewer system; or
3. When operations cannot begin or
continue due to an act of God or other
cause not within the employer’s control.

1194

August 17, 2016
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an employer from
providing greater advance notice of
part-time employees’ work schedules
and/or changes in schedules than
that required by this section.
SECTION 208. EQUAL TREATMENT FOR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Employers shall provide part-time
employees with the same starting
hourly wage as that provided to starting full-time employees who hold jobs
that require equal skill, effort, and
responsibility, and that are performed
under similar working conditions.
Pay differentials between part-time
and full-time employees are permissible if such differentials are based on
reasons other than the part-time status of the employee. This section shall
not affect the minimum hourly
requirements for receipt of benefits
including, but not limited to, health
care benefits.
Employers shall provide part-time
employees with proportional access
to employer-provided paid and unpaid
time off, including sick leave, personal leave and vacation leave, as that
afforded to full-time employees for
the same job classification. A parttime
employee’s
eligibility
for
employer-provided paid or unpaid
time off may be pro-rated based on the
number of hours that the part-time
employee works.
Employers shall provide part-time
employees with the same eligibility
for promotions as that afforded to
full-time employees for the same job
classification,
provided
that
an
employer may condition eligibility
for promotion on the employee’s availability for full-time employment and
on reasons other than the part-time
status of the employee, such as the
nature and amount of work experience.
Employers shall provide part-time
employees with the same pro-rated
eligibility for other benefits as that
afforded to full-time employees for
the same job classification.
SECTION
209.
NOTICE
OF
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
The Commission shall publish and
make available to employers, in any
language recognized by the City, a
notice suitable for posting by employers in the workplace informing parttime employees of their rights under
Sections 204 to 214. Every employer
that employs part-time employees
shall post such notice at its workplaces or job sites in conspicuous
locations to ensure that part-time
employees are informed of their
rights under these sections.
SECTIONS 210. RETENTION OF
EMPLOYMENT RECORDS
For a period of not less than three
(3) years, employers shall retain
employment and payroll records pertaining to current and former parttime employees.
SECTION 211. INVESTIGATION
AND ENFORCEMENT
Any person who claims to have
been injured by a violation of Sections 204 to 214 or who believes they
will be irrevocably injured by a violation of these sections that has
occurred or is occurring may file a
complaint with the Commission. Any
such complaint shall be filed within
one hundred eighty (180) days of the

August 17, 2016
occurrence of an alleged violation,
shall be in writing, shall identify the
person or entity alleged to have committed or alleged to be committing a
violation of these sections, and shall
state the facts upon which the allegations of a violation are based.
Upon the filing of a complaint as
herein provided, the Commission
shall cause to be made a prompt and
full investigation of the matter stated
in the complaint. During or after the
investigation, the Commission shall,
if it appears that a violation has
occurred or is threatening to occur,
attempt by informal endeavors to
effect conciliation, including voluntary discontinuance of the violation
and adequate assurance of future voluntary compliance with the provisions of Sections 204 to 214.
Upon completion of the investigation and informal endeavors at conciliation by the Commission, but within
thirty (30) days of the filing of the
complaint with the Commission, if the
efforts of the Commission to secure
voluntary compliance have been
unsuccessful, and if the Commission
has made a determination that a violation of Sections 204 to 214 has in fact
occurred, such conclusion shall be
submitted to the Director of Law who
shall make a determination regarding civil enforcement in the Cleveland Municipal Court. If the Director
of Law decides to proceed with civil
enforcement, he or she shall institute
such action within thirty (30) days
after such determination has been
made, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
If the Commission determines that
there is not probable cause to believe
that a particular alleged or suspected
violation of these sections has been
committed, the Commission shall take
no further action with respect to that
alleged or suspected offense. In such
case, the person filing the complaint
shall be notified by the Commission
and informed of any alternate action
they may take, including appeal to
the City Council.
SECTION 212. UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION
It shall be unlawful for any person
to harass, threaten, harm, damage, or
otherwise penalize any individual,
whistleblower, group, or business
because they have complied with the
provisions of Sections 204 to 214,
because they have exercised their
rights under these sections or enjoyed
the benefits of these sections, or
because they have made a charge,
allegation, testified, or assisted in
any manner in any investigation, or
in any proceeding hereunder or have
made any report to the Commission. A
violation of this section shall be subject to the penalty provisions of Section 213.
SECTION 213. PENALTY
Any person or entity violating any
provision of Sections 204 to 214 shall
be subject to a civil penalty of one
thousand ($1,000) dollars per violation. If a person or entity is assessed
three (3) such penalties in any thirtysix (36) month period, the amount of
the penalty for any subsequent violations by such person or entity shall be
increased to ten thousand ($10,000)
dollars per violation for a period of
five years. In any penalty enforcement action, the violator shall also be
liable for the attorneys’ fees of the
City and the complainant. Each day a

The City Record
violation continues after the passage
of seventy-five (75) days from the
date of the filing of the initial complaint with the Commission shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense. Any person or entity violating any provision of Sections 204 to
214 may be enjoined by a suit filed by
the City in a court of competent jurisdiction, and this remedy is in addition
to any penalty provision.
SECTION 214. LEGAL EFFECT
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or
word of Sections 204 to 214, or any
application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by a decision of a
court competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions or applications of these sections. Sections 204 to
214 are cumulative in their legal
effect and are not in lieu of any and
all other legal remedies which an
aggrieved person may pursue. Nothing in Sections 204 to 214 shall be construed as limiting the rights and
remedies that the law otherwise provides to employees nor shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any
right, requirement, power, or duty in
conflict with any federal or state law.
Section 2. That the forgoing proposed amendment to the Charter, on
receiving at least a majority of the
votes cast at the November 8, 2016,
special election, shall become effective immediately on its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of this
Council is authorized to promptly forward a certified copy of this ordinance to the Board of Elections of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall cause
an appropriate notice to be given of
the election to be held on November 8,
2016, on the foregoing amendment to
the Charter of this City and otherwise
to provide for the election in the manner provided by the general laws of
the State of Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to cause the full text of
the proposed amendment to the Charter to be published once a week for
two consecutive weeks in a newspaper published in the City of Cleveland, with the first publication to be
made at least fifteen days prior to the
special election to be held on November 8, 2016, as provided in Article
XVIII, Section 9 of the Constitution of
the State of Ohio, Section 731.211 of
the Revised Code, and Section 200 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland.
Section 6. That, for the reasons stated in the preamble hereto, which is
made a part hereof, this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the
members elected to Council.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 926-16.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 2016 St. Rocco 5K Run,
on September 3, 2016, sponsored by St.
Rocco Festival Committee.

1195

19
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
2015 St. Rocco 5K Run, on September
3, 2016, start: Fulton Road and St.
Rocco Court; Fulton south to Storer
Avenue; Storer west to West 61st
Street; West 61st north to Clark
Avenue; Clark east to Fulton Road;
Fulton south to St. Rocco Court; provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 927-16.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Susan G. Komen Race
for the Cure on August 27, 2016, managed by Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure
on August 27, 2016, start: Lakeside
Avenue and East 6th Street; Lakeside
east to East 18th Street; East 18th
south to Euclid Avenue; Euclid west
to East 12th Street; East 12th north to
Lakeside Avenue; Lakeside west to
East 9th Street; East 9th north to
Erieside Avenue; Erieside west to
West 3rd Street; West 3rd south to
Lakeside Avenue; Lakeside east to
Mall C—Finish Line; provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance

20
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 929-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with CAMHP Foundation
for the Economic Rehabilitation –
One Neighbor at a Time Program
through the use of Ward 8 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective July 1, 2016
with the CAMHP Foundation for the
Economic Rehabilitation – One Neighbor at a Time Program for the public
purpose of providing financial literacy education to low and moderate
income residents residing in the city
of Cleveland through the use of Ward
8 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 930-16.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Near West Side
Multi Service Corporation (dba) May
Dugan Center for the Food Distribution Program through the use of
Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective September 1,
2016 with the Near West Side Multi
Service
Corporation
(dba)
May
Dugan Center for the Food Distribution Program for the public purpose
of providing fresh food and produce to
low income residents residing in the
city of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 3 casino revenue funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $7,500 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall p r e p F a r e a n d a p p r o v e s a i d
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions as
he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 931-16.
By Council Members McCormack,
Mitchell and Kazy.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Cleveland Public
Theatre for the Student Theatre
Enrichment
Program
(STEP)
through the use of Wards 3, 6 and 16
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement with Cleveland Public
Theatre for the Student Theatre
Enrichment Program (STEP) for the
public purpose of providing theatre
education and training on live arts to
city of Cleveland youth through the
use of Wards 3, 6 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $20,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.

1196

August 17, 2016
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 968-16.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Brick City Productions or with its fiscal agent University Circle Inc, for the Papa Resource
and Education Expo through the use
of Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective August 10,
2016 with Brick City Productions or
with its fiscal agent University Circle
Inc, for the Papa Resource and Education Expo for the public purpose of
providing educational programming
and social support resources to grandparent households that have the
responsibility of raising grandchildren in the city of Cleveland through
the use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $2,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 969-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement
with
the
Cleveland
Restoration Society for the Heritage
Home Program through the use of
Wards 1 and 6 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department
of
Community
Development is hereby authorized to
enter into agreement effective July 1,
2016 with the Cleveland Restoration
Society for the Heritage Home
Program for the public purpose of
providing housing rehabilitation
services to residents residing in the

August 17, 2016
city of Cleveland through the use of
Ward(s) 1 and 6 casino revenue funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $16,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 970-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Pruitt, Reed, McCormack, Cleveland,
Mitchell, Dow, Polensek, Conwell, J.
Johnson, Brady, Kelley, Cummins,
Kazy, and Keane.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker
Square Development Corporation for
the Eleven Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16 and
17 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement with the Buckeye
Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven Angels Community Garden Project for the public purpose of promoting community green
space and beautification in the city of
Cleveland through the use of Wards 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16 and 17
Casino Revenue Funds
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $12,300 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 985-16.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Public Health to enter into agreement
with African American Male Wellness Walk for the African American
Male Health Expo through the use of
Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Health is hereby authorized to enter into agreement
effective August 24, 2016 with the
African American Male Wellness
Walk for the African American Male
Health Expo for the public purpose of
providing health education and information on healthy life style practices
to African American Males residing
in the city of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 9 Casino revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $7,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 986-16.
By Council Members Brady and
Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City of Cleveland to accept the
donation from Ozanne Construction
Company and any assisting company
of deconstruction and removal services of the gazebo and related structures at Cudell Recreation Center;
and authorizing the transfer of the
deconstructed structures to the Tamir
Rice Foundation, an Ohio nonprofit
corporation.
Whereas, the gazebo structure and
related structures at Cudell Recreation Center are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland is authorized to accept the donation from Ozanne Construction Company, and any company that may
assist it, of deconstruction and
removal services of the gazebo and
related structures located at Cudell
Recreation Center.
Section 2. That Ozanne Construction Company and any assisting company are authorized to transfer the
deconstructed structures to the Tamir

1197

21
Rice Foundation, an Ohio nonprofit
corporation.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 932-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 1503 Spring Road, 1st
floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
77446580005 owned by Sarkis, LLC,
1503 Spring Road, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

22
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 933-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 14222
Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1897646
owned by Dailey’s, Inc., 14222 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 934-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X and
D3 Liquor Permit at 2301 Broadview
Road, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X and D3 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 9115311 owned by 2301 Enterprises,
Inc., DBA Old Brooklyn Social Club
and patio, 2301 Broadview Road, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

1198

August 17, 2016
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 935-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit at 4818-22
Memphis Avenue and patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3845983 owned by H I M,
Inc., DBA Memphis Tavern, 4818-22
Memphis Avenue and patio, Cleveland,
Ohio
44144,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 936-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 5200 Memphis
Avenue.

August 17, 2016
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7315819 owned by Revenue, Inc., 5200
Memphis Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44144, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 937-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 6101 Memphis Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and

The City Record
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 4525622
owned by Kay Em Cee, LLC, DBA The
Pour House Memphis, 6101 Memphis
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 938-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 4301 State Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and

1199

23
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8725043
owned by Swagger Tavern, LLC, 4301
State Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 939-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 4693
State Road, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,

24
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 381965 owned by
Nicetime, Inc., DBA Dirty Dog, 4693
State Road, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 940-16.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of location of a
D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit
to 668 Euclid Avenue, Suite 8.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of an
application for the transfer of location
of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit
from Pololu, Ltd., 12018 Mayfield
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44106,
Permanent Number 70088790005 to VIP
Beauty Bar, LLC, DBA Manifest, 668
Euclid Avenue, Suite 8, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
9283393; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets, is
contrary to the best interests of the
entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated
his liquor business in disregard of the
laws, regulations or local ordinances
of this state or any other state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the
building,
safety
or
health
requirements of the governing body of
this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor
Control
are
prevented
reasonable
access
to
the
establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it

The City Record
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good order;
and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code. Council’s
objection to said permit must be
received by the Superintendent of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6
Liquor Permit from Pololu, Ltd., 12018
Mayfield Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44106,
Permanent Number 70088790005 to VIP
Beauty Bar, LLC, DBA Manifest, 668
Euclid Avenue, Suite 8, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
9283393;
and
requests
the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 941-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 870 East 185th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to

1200

August 17, 2016
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4969821 owned by Carla LaGrutta,
DBA Quix, 870 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 942-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 15222 Waterloo
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9427085 owned by Waterloo Gas & Go,
Inc., 15222 Waterloo Road, Cleveland,

August 17, 2016
Ohio
44110,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 943-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 15504 Waterloo
Road & Gas Pumps.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5339250 owned by Lucky Times, LLC,
DBA Freeway Sunoco, 15504 Waterloo
Road and Gas Pumps, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

The City Record
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 944-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
1303 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of an
application for a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Neetu Foods, Inc., 1303 Clark
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permit
Number 6331968; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets, is
contrary to the best interests of the
entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated
his liquor business in disregard of the
laws, regulations or local ordinances
of this state or any other state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the
building,
safety
or
health
requirements of the governing body of
this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor
Control
are
prevented
reasonable
access
to
the
establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good order;
and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code. Council’s
objection to said permit must be
received by the Superintendent of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Neetu Foods, Inc., 1303 Clark
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permit
Number 6331968; and requests the

1201

25
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 945-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 7020 Harvard
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3648441 owned by Harvard Gas, LLC,
DBA Harvard Gas USA, 7020 Harvard
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to

26
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 946-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3578 Independence Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 4949651
owned by LRC Enterprises, LLC, DBA
Club 1227, 3578 Independence Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 947-16.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
968 East 105th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of an
application for a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Gee Gee Grocery Co., DBA
Gee Gee Grocery, 968 East 105th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permit Number
8932938; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets, is
contrary to the best interests of the
entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated
his liquor business in disregard of the
laws, regulations or local ordinances
of this state or any other state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the
building,
safety
or
health
requirements of the governing body of
this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor
Control
are
prevented
reasonable
access
to
the
establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good order;
and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code. Council’s
objection to said permit must be
received by the Superintendent of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Gee Gee Grocery Co., DBA
Gee Gee Grocery, 968 East 105th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permit Number
8932938;
and
requests
the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

1202

August 17, 2016
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 948-16.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the Liquor
Agency Contract located at 12408
Union Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 827-16.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the Liquor Agency Contract at
Fakhoury Enterprises, Inc., 12408
Union Avenue, Unit A, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 2600031 by
Resolution No. 827-16 adopted by the
Council on July 13, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
Liquor Agency Contract at Fakhoury
Enterprises, Inc., 12408 Union Avenue,
Unit
A,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
Permanent Number 2600031, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 827-16, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 949-16.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 12408 Union Avenue, Unit
A and repealing Resolution No. 82816 objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit to Fakhoury
Enterprises, Inc., 12408 Union Avenue,
Unit
A,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
2600031
by
Resolution No. 828-16 adopted by the
Council on March 14, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

August 17, 2016
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit to Fakhoury
Enterprises, Inc., 12408 Union Avenue,
Unit
A,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
Permanent Number 2600031, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 828-16, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 950-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 1201 East 185th
Street and repealing Resolution No.
272-16, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
New C1 Liquor Permit at 185 Gas, Inc.,
1201 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permanent Number 6548391 by
Resolution No. 272-16 adopted by the
Council on February 29, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 185 Gas, Inc., 1201
East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permanent Number 6548391, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 272-16, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 951-16.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 3916 East 123d Street, 1st
floor only and repealing Resolution
No. 164-16 objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2

The City Record
Liquor Permit to 3916 East 123rd, Inc.,
DBA Food Plus, 3916 East 123rd Street,
1st floor only, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent
Number
8871329
by
Resolution No. 164-16 adopted by the
Council on February 8, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to 3916 East 123rd, Inc.,
DBA Food Plus, 3916 East 123rd Street,
1st floor only, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 8871329, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 164-16, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 952-16.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 11619
Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8306025 owned by Lorain
Entertainment,
LLC,
DBA
West
Enders, 11619 Lorain Avenue, 1st floor

1203

27
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
and requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 953-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 5351-53
Dolloff Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9862110 owned by Your
Place & Mine LLC, DBA Your Place &
Mine, 5351-53 Dolloff Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44127,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to

28
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 954-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor
Permit
at
13601
Lorain
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 5804911
owned by Meera, Inc., DBA Lorain
Sunoco,
13601
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the

The City Record
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 955-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 14939 Puritas
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4179234 owned by JBI Enterprises,
Inc., DBA Cleveland Deli & Beverage,
14939 Puritas Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44135, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

1204

August 17, 2016
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 956-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 4282 West 130th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 90092450005 owned by Touma, LLC,
4282 West 130th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44135,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.

August 17, 2016
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 957-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 462529 West 130th Street and patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 7140274 owned by
Quiet Bobs, Inc., DBA Quiet Bobs Bar
& Grill, 4625-29 West 130th Street and
patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 958-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4050 West 140th
Street and basement.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7059014 owned by Pram Corporation,
DBA Friendly Food Mart, 4050 West
140th Street and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44135,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 959-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 7216 Clark Avenue, 1st
floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds

1205

29
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5
Liquor
Permit,
Permit
No.
4181670005 owned by K & C, Inc., 7216
Clark Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 960-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor
Permit
at
8808
Detroit
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that

30
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8058781 owned by Shean Corporation,
Inc., DBA Dairy Mart 5 4858, 8808
Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
and requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 961-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1121315 Detroit Avenue, 1st floor, basement and patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of

The City Record
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8093311 owned by Shlomba,
LLC, DBA Now That’s Class, 11213-15
Detroit Avenue, 1st floor, basement
and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 962-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 8701 Lake Avenue,
1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

1206

August 17, 2016
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5120787 owned by Lena Mart, Inc., 8701
Lake Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 963-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 7201 Lorain
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No.
0222256
owned
by
Anila
Enterprises, LLD, DBA Convenient
Food Mart, 7201 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for

August 17, 2016
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 964-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 3021 West 105th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4161716 owned by Its Always Partly
Sunny in Cleveland, LLC, DBA Time
Out Bar and Grill, 3021 West 105th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of

The City Record
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 965-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 6506 Fleet Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7638470 owned by 6506 Fleet Avenue,
LLC, 6506 Fleet Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.

1207

31
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 966-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 12820 Brookpark Road and
patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2977644
owned by G L M R, Inc., DBA Secrets,
12820 Brookpark Road and patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44130, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from

32
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 967-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3266 West 117th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8916603 owned by 3266 West 117th
Street, LLC, DBA Gas USA, 3266 West
117th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
and requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 971-16.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 2603 Woodhill
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 4118409 owned by Ibald, Inc., DBA
American Food Mart, 2603 Woodhill
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 972-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 2625 East 55th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and

1208

August 17, 2016
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7148708 owned by R & H Gas, Inc., DBA
East 55th Street Shell, 2625 East 55th
Street, North Unit, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 973-16.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3363 East 93rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has

August 17, 2016
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0077921 owned by AH & TA, Inc., 3363
East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 974-16.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 4324 Warner Road,
1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the

The City Record
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
76440620001 owned by Jerry Saa, DBA
P N G Supermarket, 4324 Warner
Road, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
and requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 975-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 4703 Pearl Road,
1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

1209

33
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5476818 owned by Mandy’s Lounge,
Inc., DBA Mandy’s, 4703 Pearl Road,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 976-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 5275-79 Broadway
Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8939161 owned by Tina 1 2 3, Inc., DBA
Mike’s Beverage, 5275-79 Broadway
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44127, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of

34
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 977-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 7401-05 Central
Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3452641 owned by Gurdev, Inc., DBA
Deeps State Liquor & Market, 7401-05
Central
Avenue,
1st
floor
and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of

The City Record
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 978-16.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 7902-14 Central Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8876756
owned by Dionne Mae Thomas, DBA
Josephine’s Lounge, 7902-04 Central
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.

1210

August 17, 2016
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 979-16.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 11132
Buckeye Road, P.O. Box 20370.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6877045 owned by Phase III
Corp., 11132 Buckeye Road, P.O. Box
20370, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

August 17, 2016
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 980-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 11526-28 Clifton
Boulevard.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9060830 owned by Tripod Tavern, Inc.,
DBA Tick Tock Tavern & Patio, 1152628 Clifton Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 981-16.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2886 Woodhill
Road, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9804492 owned by Ya Corp., Inc., DBA
Nikkis Market, 2886 Woodhill Road,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 982-16.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 3111 East 93rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and

1211

35
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 7650370 owned by Sabah Hanini,
Inc., DBA Little Eagle Food Market,
3111 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 983-16.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3344 East 116th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor

36
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
89166090005 owned by 3344 E 116, Inc.,
DBA Kinsman Supermarket, 3344 East
116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
and requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 984-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of location of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 5611
Woodland Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of an
application for the transfer of location
of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit from
Irving Torres, DBA Tony’s Deli, 2177
West 30th Street, 1st floor front,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 9001820 to Shri Hanuman, Inc.,
DBA
Hometown
Grocery,
5611
Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 81131450005;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets, is
contrary to the best interests of the
entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated

The City Record
his liquor business in disregard of the
laws, regulations or local ordinances
of this state or any other state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the
building,
safety
or
health
requirements of the governing body of
this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor
Control
are
prevented
reasonable
access
to
the
establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good order;
and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code. Council’s
objection to said permit must be
received by the Superintendent of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
from Irving Torres, DBA Tony’s Deli,
2177 West 30th Street, 1st floor front,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 9001820 to Shri Hanuman, Inc.,
DBA
Hometown
Grocery,
5611
Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 81131450005;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 988-16.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X
Liquor Permit at 4025 East 131st
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and

1212

August 17, 2016
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8429701 owned by Speedy Harvard,
LLC, 4025 East 131st Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 989-16.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X
Liquor Permit at 3904 Martin Luther
King Blvd., 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and

August 17, 2016
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
40342570005
owned
by
Pamela
Hubbard, DBA McClain’s Market II,
3904 Martin Luther King Blvd., 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 990-16.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 4525 Turney Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3602732 owned by Hargur, Inc., DBA
Turney Deli, 4525 Turney Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 440-16.
By Council Members Kazy and
Brady.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 337.231, Portable Storage
Containers,
to
regulate
use
of
portable storage containers to protect
the public safety and aesthetics of
residential neighborhoods in the City;
and amending Section 327.99, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1396-14,
passed December 8, 2014, regarding
penalty.
Approved by Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at new Section
337.231(a), strike line 4 in its entirety
and insert “on residential property.”.
2. In Section 1, at new Section
337.231(c)(2), line 1, strike “placed on
a lot” and insert “placed on a residential property”; and in division (c)(3),
line 1, strike “in use on a lot”; and in
division (c)(5), line 1, strike “during
the term or” and insert “during the
term of”; in 337.231(c)(6), line 2,
strike “; and” and insert a period; and
strike 337.231(c)(7) in its entirety.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

1213

37
Ord. No. 649-16.
By Council Members Conwell, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an amendment and restatement to a Lease Agreement with the
Cleveland Museum of Art to change
certain terms of the lease, including
but not limited to, the term and development issues relating to Case Western Reserve University’s Greenway
Connector Project; and authorizing
the Director to lease certain properties located in Wade Park to the
Cleveland Art Museum and Case
Western Reserve University for the
purpose of implementing the Project,
for a term of ninety-nine years, with
one option to renew, for an additional
ninety-nine years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In the third whereas clause, line
6, strike “East 105th” and insert “East
101st”.
2. In Section 1, at the legal
description for Parcel B, renumber
the
second
“Course
No.
20”
to
“Course No. 21”; and renumber existing “Course No. 21” to “Course No.
22” and “Course No. 22” to “Course
No. 23”.
3. In Section 2, line 6, strike
“CWRU” and insert “Amended 2004”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 665-16.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 630.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No.141-09,
passed March 30, 2009, relating to
criminal activity nuisances.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 2; in Section 1,
line 1; and in Section 2, line 1, strike
“Section 630.02” and insert “Sections
630.01 and 630.02” in all three places.
2. In Section 1, line 2, and in Section
2, line 2, strike “is” and insert “are” in
both places.
3. In Section 1, after line 2, insert
new Section 630.01 to read as follows:
“Section 630.01 Criminal Activity
Nuisances Declared
(a) Activities, as defined in any of
the following Codified Ordinances,
occurring on properties in the City,
and engaged in by an owner, occupant or invitee of the owner or occupant of the property, are declared to
be nuisance activities. To be a nuisance activity, a criminal conviction
is not necessary. There must be probable cause to believe that the activity
occurred.
(1) Any animal violation under Sections 603.01 (Animals or Fowl at
Large), 603.02 (Unmuzzled Dogs at
Large), 603.04 (Dog Nuisances),
603.07 (Killing or Injuring Animals),

38
603.072 (Illegal Fights between Animals), 603.08 (Poisoning Animals),
603.09 (Cruelty to Animals), 603.091
(Neglect of Animals), 603.11 (Large
Cats), 603A.03 (Keeping an Exotic
Animal Without a Permit), 603A.08
(Care and Treatment of Exotic Animal Held Under Permit), 603A.14
(Facilities
Housing
Reptiles),
603A.17 (Snakes in Multi-Family Residences Prohibited), 604.03 (Control
of Vicious and Dangerous Dogs) of
the Codified Ordinances;
(2) Any disorderly conduct or disorderly activity violation under Sections 605.01 (Riot), 605.02 (Failure to
Disperse), 605.03 (Disorderly Conduct; Intoxication), 605.05 (Misconduct at an Emergency), 605.06 (Inducing Panic), 605.07 (Making False
Alarms), 605.071 (Improper Use of 9-11 Telephone System), 605.10 (Unnecessary Noise), 605.14 (Minor’s Curfew) of the Codified Ordinances;
(3) Any drug abuse violation under
Chapter 607 of the Codified Ordinances;
(4) Any family offense violation
under Sections 609.04 (Endangering
Children), 609.10 (Contributing to
Unruliness or Delinquency of a Child)
of the Codified Ordinances;
(5) Any gambling violation under
Chapter 611 of the Codified Ordinances;
(6) Any littering violation under
Chapter 613 of the Codified Ordinances;
(7) Any liquor control violation
under Sections 617.02 (Sales to and
Use by Minors; Securing Public
Accommodations), 617.021 (Purchase,
Consumption or Possession by Minor;
Misrepresentation), 617.03 (Sales to
Intoxicated Persons), 617.05 (Permit
Required), 617.06 (Printed Warnings
to be Posted), 617.08 (Hours of Sale or
Consumption), 617.09 (Bottle Clubs)
of the Codified Ordinances;
(8) Any obscenity and sex offenses
violation under Sections 619.03 (Corruption of a Minor), 619.04 (Sexual
Imposition), 619.05 (Importuning),
619.08 (Procuring), 619.09 (Soliciting), 619.10 (Prostitution), 619.12
(Disseminating Material Harmful to
Juveniles), 619.14 (Possession of
Obscene Material Involving Minor),
619.15 (Possession of Sexually-Oriented Material Involving Minor), 619.16
(Possession of Nudity-Oriented Material Involving Minor), 619.161 (Displaying Matter Harmful to Juveniles), 619.17 (Prohibited Conduct) of
the Codified Ordinances;
(9) Any offense against another
person
under
Sections
621.03
(Assault), 621.031 (Assault by a
Minor; Parental Duty Imposed),
621.04 (Negligent Assault), 621.06
(Aggravated Menacing), 621.07 (Menacing), 621.08 (Unlawful Restraint),
621.09 (Coercion), 621.10 (Telephone
Harassment), 621.11 (Threatening or
Harassing Phone Calls), 621.14 (Hazing) of the Codified Ordinances;
(10) Any offense against property
under Sections 623.02 (Criminal Damaging or Endangering, 623.03 (Criminal Mischief) of the Codified Ordinances;
(11) Any theft violation under Sections 625.05 (Petty Theft), 625.08
(Criminal Tools), 625.10 (Unauthorized Use of Property), 625.21 (Receiving Stolen Property), 625.27 (Trafficking In or Illegal Use of “WIC”
Coupons) of the Codified Ordinances;
(12) Any weapons and explosives
violation under Sections 627.04 (Using
Weapons While Intoxicated), 627.05

The City Record
(Unlawful
Transactions
in
Weapons), 627.06 (Failure to Secure
Dangerous
Ordnance),
627.07
(Improperly Providing Access to
Firearm by Minor), 627.09 (Discharging Firearms), 627.12 (Seizure and
Confiscation of Deadly Weapon);
627.16 (Prohibition Against Transferring Firearms or Dangerous Ordnance to a Felon or Intoxicated Person); 627.21 (Sale of Long Bladed
Pocket Knives), 627.22 (Sale or Possession of Sling Shots and Pea Shooters), 627.23 (Unlawful Display of
Weapons), 627.24 (Possession or Use
of Stench Bombs), 627.25 (Tear Gas
Guns), 627.26 (Containers of Combustibles), 627.27 (Jump Traps),
627.19 (Facsimile Firearms) of the
Codified Ordinances;
(13) Any sound devices violation
under Section 683.01 (Playing of
Sound Devices Prohibited) of the Codified Ordinances;
(14) Any massage establishment
violation under Chapter 683A of the
Codified Ordinances;
(15) Any explosives violation under
Chapter 387 of the Codified Ordinances;
(16) Any open burning violation
under Section 277.09 of the Codified
Ordinances.
(b) When three (3) or more nuisance activities as defined in division
(a) occur on separate occasions on
the same property within any twelve
(12) month period, the Director of
Public Safety, or his or her designee,
may declare the premises to be a nuisance property and may abate the nuisance as provided in Section 630.02.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 700-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of rehabilitating the
storm and sanitary sewer systems in
and around the IX Center and discharge centers, and constructing
infrastructure improvements needed
for the rehabilitation; and authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 718-16.
By Council Members McCormack,
Keane and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease Docks 28B, 30, and 32, excluding
the warehouses on Docks 30 and 32, to
the Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC for surface parking and
staging special event programming
for ten Cleveland Browns home
games, any NFL playoff games and
up to nine other events a year, for a
period of one year.

1214

August 17, 2016
Approved by Directors of Port Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Transportation,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 792-16.
By Council Member Polensek
An emergency ordinance to add
the name David D. Dawson, Sr. Way
as a secondary and honorary name
to Thames Avenue.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 793-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to add
the name George V. Voinovich Way
as a secondary and honorary name
to Rosecliff Road.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 2, and in Section 1, line 2, strike “George V.” and
insert “George and Janet” in both
places.
2. In the title, line 3, and in Section 1, line 3, strike “Rosecliff Road”
and insert “Schenely Avenue” in
both places.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 794-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance designating Griswold Avenue between
Kinsman Avenue and East 61st
Street with a secondary and honorary designation of “C. D. Gant
Way”.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 795-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance designating
Central
Avenue
between
East 71st Street and East 77th Street
with a secondary and honorary designation of “Stanley Jackson Way”.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, lines 2 and 3, and
in Section 1, line 1, strike “between
East 71st Street and East 77th
Street” and insert “from East 68th
Street to East 85th Street” in both
places.
2. In the title, line 4, and in Section 1, line 2, after “Jackson” insert
“, Sr.” in both places.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

August 17, 2016
Ord. No. 796-16.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
accept a grant from the United
States Department of Justice for the
FY 2014 COPS Hiring Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 797-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from the Supreme Court of
Ohio for the Court Technology Project; and authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with Justice A/V Solutions, Inc. and
other consultants for professional
services necessary to implement the
grant.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 798-16.
By Council Members McCormack,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the report of the Assessment
Equalization Board on objections
concerning estimated assessments
with respect to the continuation and
expansion of the Ohio City - Cleveland Business Improvement District
and the comprehensive services plan
for safety, maintenance and other
services to be provided for the District; determining to proceed with
the plan to provide public services
within the District; adopting the
assessments; levying the assessments; and authorizing the City to
enter into an agreement with the
Ohio City Improvement Corporation.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 799-16.
By
Council
Members
Mitchell,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan
from the United States Department
of Housing and Urban Development
to partially finance the development
of an office building located at
10500 Cedar Avenue and other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the properties; and authorizing the
Director of Economic Development
to enter into one or more agreements with Hemingway Development LLC, or its designee, for the
project.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 800-16.
By
Council
Members
Mitchell,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Hemingway
Development LLC, or its designee, to
provide for tax abatement for certain real property improvements as
an incentive for the development of
an office building located at 10500
Cedar Avenue in the Cleveland Area
Enterprise Zone.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 802-16.
By Council Members Brady, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
the Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization, or its
designee, to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially
finance the project costs needed for
the redevelopment of the Variety
Theatre Complex located at 1180111850 Lorain Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 803-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
and/or City Planning to enter into
one or more contracts with Janet
Zweig for professional services necessary for the design, production,
and
installation
of
a
yet-to-be
designed public artwork associated
with, and installed at, the new
Cleveland Kennel.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development
Planning
and
Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 804-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on

1215

39
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into one or more contracts with LOGOS Communications,
Inc. dba Black Box Network Services for professional services necessary to implement the Court’s
paperless
document
management
initiative and related services; and
authorizing the employment of one
or more professional consultants to
provide related services needed to
implement the Initiative.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 805-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
material capital repairs and capital
improvements to First Energy Stadium; authorizing one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement; and
professional services to design, or in
the alternative, to reimburse or
accept the gift of design and other
services from the Cleveland Browns.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Public Works, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 806-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Keane and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to
apply for and accept one or more
grants from the US Department of
Transportation through their FY
2016 TIGER program; to enter into
contract with Parsons Brinkerhoff,
Inc. for grant application services;
to amend their FY 2015 contract to
provide additional services; and to
apply for and accept gifts, grant,
and other funding from various public and private entities to implement
the grant.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability, Transportation,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 2, line 3, after “$9.34”
insert “million”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 807-16.
By Council Members Cummins and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Ohio Department of Health for Public Health Accreditation; authorizing

40
payment of an initial fee to the Public Health Accreditation Board necessary to receive accreditation; and
other agreements to implement the
grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 821-16.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance designating the 3101 Euclid Avenue
Building as a Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 826-16.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal
to amend Section 115-2 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland relating
to the Police Review Board.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 1. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson,
Kazy,
Keane,
Kelley,
McCormack,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Pruitt, Reed, Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Dow.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 822-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Area Districts of parcels north
of Fleet Ave, between E. 49th Street
and E. 52nd Street to a ‘Limited
Retail’ District, and a ‘G’ Area District as identified on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2540).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE FAILED
Ord. No. 621-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by initiative petition).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting
new sections 174.01 through 174.06
relating
to
Cleveland
Minimum
Wage.
Motion by Council Member J.
Johnson, to revert back to Second
Reading, in order to make an
amendment to Ord. No. 621-16. Seconded by Council Member Reed.
Motion failed, 5 yeas, 12 nays.
Those voting yea: Council Members Conwell, J. Johnson, Polensek,
Reed and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Cummins, Dow, K. Johnson, Kazy,
Keane, Kelley, McCormack, Mitchell
and Pruitt.
Read third time in full. Failed,
Yeas 1, Nays 16.
Those voting yea: Council Member
J. Johnson.
Those voting nay: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, K. Johnson, Kazy, Keane, Kelley, McCormack, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed and Zone.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:02 p.m. to the call of the Chair.
The next regular meeting of Council is on Monday, September 12, 2016,
at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED

August 10, 2016

Res. No. 812-16.
By Council Members McCormack,
Cleveland, K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Andes Court S.E.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development
Planning and Sustainability.

The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, August 10,
2016 at 10:38 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.

1216

August 17, 2016
Others: Tiffany White Johnson,
Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
Matthew Spronz, Director, Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects.
Melissa Burrows, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 350-16.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
under
the
authority
of
Section
129.294 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, MWH Americas, Inc. is selected from a list of
firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities as the firm to be
employed by contract to provide professional consulting services for the
General Engineering Services IX
project, and other services including,
but
not
limited
to,
engineering
design, preparing feasibility studies
and
engineering
analyses,
plan
review, planning, construction monitoring and inspection, environmental
site assessment, identification of surface
and
subsurface
conditions,
preparation of reports for regulatory
agencies, specialized technical assistance, close circuit television inspection of sewers, water quality and
security systems evaluation/design,
and other related professional consulting services, on an as needed
basis, for a period of two years, for
the Divisions of Water and Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
MWH Americas, Inc. based upon its
proposal dated, April 25, 2016, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide that
the compensation for the professional services described in the proposal shall not exceed $4,076,562.33,
and shall contain such other provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by MWH Americas, Inc.
for the above-mentioned professional services is approved:
SUB-CONSULTANTS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

CAD Concepts, Inc. (dba CCI
Engineering Services) (CSB)
$120,696.00
2.96%
Somat Engineering of
Ohio, Inc. (CSB)

$108,137.00
2.65%

Sigma of Ohio, LLC (CSB)
$232,595.00
5.71%
Chagrin Valley Engineering,
Ltd. (CSB)
$113,885.00
2.79%
Regency Construction Services,
Inc. (CSB)
$240,000.00
5.89%
C&K Industrial Services, Inc.
(non-certified)
$152,413.00
0.00%

The City Record

August 17, 2016
AECOM (non-certified)

$132,200.00
0.00%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.
Resolution No. 351-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 73-12, adopted by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
April 9, 2012, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 348-12, adopted July
18, 2012, the City through its Director of Port Control, entered into Contract No. PS2012*221 with MCPc,
n/k/a Logicalis, Inc. to provide professional
services
necessary
to
design, develop and implement a
converged
communication
system
for the Department of Port Control;
and
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that under Section 181.102(b) C.O.,
Gentrack, LTD is selected upon
nomination of the Director of Port
Control as the firm to be employed
by contract to provide the professional services necessary for the
installation of upgrades, maintenance, customization and professional services for the Flight Information Display System at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport for a
period of one year starting upon
execution of a contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that, under the authority
of divisions (b) and (e) of Section
181.102 C.O., the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into a
contract with Gentrack, LTD, based
on its proposal dated July 27, 2016,
for a term of twelve months, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide that
the compensation for the services
authorized
shall
not
exceed
$30,000.00, and shall contain such
other provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.
Resolution No. 352-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Whereas, under the authority of.
Ordinance No. 499-10, as amended by
Ordinance Nos. 1624-10, 1435-11 and
1400-12, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 7, 2010,
December 6, 2010, October 31, 2011
and January 28, 2013, respectively,
and Board of Control Resolution No.
1-15, adopted January 7, 2015, the
City through its Director of Port
Control, entered into Contract No.
PS2015*043 with EnviroScience, Inc.
(“Consultant”), to provide professional services necessary to provide
environmental analytical laboratory
services for the various divisions of

41

the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, the City has determined
the need for the additional services
necessary to support the National
Pollutant
Discharge
Elimination
System by providing the complete
suite of services for environmental
sampling and analysis; and
Whereas, the Consultant has proposed by its proposal dated May 19,
2016 to perform the additional work
necessary
for
an
amount
of
$100,000.00; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a First Modification
to
City
Contract
No,
PS2015*043 between the City of
Cleveland and EnviroScience, Inc.
for the additional environmental
sampling and analysis. The amount
to be paid for all services shall be
increased
by
$100,000.00
from
$599,984.85 to a total amount not to
exceed $699,984.85.
Be it further resolved that the percentage participation attributed to
the
following
subconsultant
approved in Board of Control Resolution No. 1-15, adopted January 7,
2015, is amended as follows:

do all things necessary and appropriate to implement the above-mentioned assignment and that Harris
Corporation assumes and performs
all of Exelis, Inc.’s obligations
under
the
Contract.
The
City’s
authorization
of
the
assignment
does not waive any of Exelis, Inc.’s
obligations or the City’s rights
under the Contract against Exelis,
Inc. prior to the effective date of the
assignment.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to execute all documents and
to do all things necessary and
appropriate to implement the assignment authorized above, provided
that the terms of the above mentioned assignment do not conflict
with or modify the terms and conditions
of
City
Contract
No.
RC2015*038.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.

Subconsultant

Resolution No. 354-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 382-16, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
April 25, 2016, Rooftop Green, LLC
(“Consultant”) is selected upon the
nomination of the Director of Port
Control from a list of qualified persons or firms determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control as the firm of
consultants
available
to
be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to
provide professional services necessary to provide design/build services for the public improvement of
implementing a sustainable roofing
system for the Department of Port
Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized
to
enter
into
a
written
design/build contract with Rooftop
Green, LLC for the above-mentioned
services, based upon its proposal
dated April 27, 2016, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide that the compensation to Rooftop Green, LLC for the
services authorized shall not exceed
$225,88000, and shall contain such
other provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.

Percentage
Amount

CWM Environmental
Cleveland

29.994%CSB
$209,950.00

Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 1-15
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.
Resolution No. 353-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1558-14, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
December 8, 2014, the City, through
its Director of Port Control entered
into City Contract No. RC2015*038
with Exelis, Inc. for the purchase of
not to exceed seventy-five vehicle
squitter units, including installation
and maintenance, for the Division of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Department of Port Control;
and
Whereas, by its August 2, 2016 letter, Harris Corporation notified the
City that on December 31, 2015
Exelis, Inc. merged into Harris Corporation, requested the City’s authorization for assignment of current
Contract
No.
RC2015*038
(“Contract”) from Exelis, Inc. to Harris
Corporation, and represented it will
honor all of the terms and conditions under the Contract; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the terms of City Contract No.
RC2015*038, this Board authorizes
the assignment of the Contract from
Exelis, Inc. to Harris Corporation;
provided, however, that the parties

1217

Resolution No. 355-16.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
658-16, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 6, 2016,
City Architecture Inc., is selected

The City Record

42
from a list of firms determined after
a full and complete canvass by the
Director of Capital Projects as the
firm to be employed by contract to
supplement the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City in order to perform professional engineering services necessary to implement public improvement projects in the City of Cleveland,
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into a written contract
with City Architecture Inc., based
upon their proposal dated June 10,
2016 for a cost not to exceed
$100,000.00. The contract shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such other provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by City Architecture
Inc. for the service authorized above
is approved:
Sub-Consultant

Percentage
Amount

Consulting Engineering Inc.
CSB
5.000%
$ 5,000.00
Barber & Hoffman, Inc.
CSB

Construction Green Team
CSB

McGuiness Unlimited Inc.
CSB

Boulevard Studios LLC
FBE

15.000%
$15,000.00

5.000%
$ 5,000.00

5.000%
$ 5,000.00

0.000%
$ 1,000.00

Thermal Environmental
non-certified
0.000%
$25,000.00
Intertek PSI non-certified

0.000%
$ 1,000.00

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.
Resolution No. 356-16.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
658-16, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 6, 2016,
Richard L. Bowen & Associates, is
selected from a list of firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Capital Projects as the firm to be employed by
contract to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City in order to
perform
professional
engineering
services necessary to implement
public improvement projects in the
City of Cleveland,

August 17, 2016

Be it further resolved that the
Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Richard L. Bowen & Associates, based upon their proposal
dated June 10, 2016 for a cost not to
exceed
$100,000.00.
The
contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain such other
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by Richard L. Bowen &
Associates for the service authorized above is approved:
Percentage
Amount

Sub-Consultant

Sandhu & Associates CSB

Knight & Stolar, Inc. CSB

Studio Graphique CSB

9.130%
$9,100.00
2.282%
$2,282.00
2.282%
$2,282.00

AGM Energy Services CSB

4.565%
$4,565.00

HZW Environmental FBE

0.000%
$2,282.00

Intertek PSI non-certified

0.000%
$2,282.00

David V. Lewin non-certified 0.000%
$2,282.00
DSM & Associated, LLC
non-certified

KS Associates non-certified

Wiss, Janney, Elstner &
Associates non-certified

0.000%
$2,282.00
0.000%
$2,282.00

0.000%
$2,282.00

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.
Resolution No. 357-16.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of R.J. Platten Contracting
Company for the public improvement of the Multiple Parks Site
Improvements, Bid Package A, Base
Bid, Bid Package B, Base Bid and
Alternate A-1, Bid Package C, Base
Bid and Alternate A-1, Bid Package
D, Base Bid and Alternates A-1, A-2
and A-3, Bid Package E, Base Bid
and Alternate A-1, for the Office of
Capital Projects, received on June
17, 2016 under the authority of Ordinance No. 732-14, passed June 9, 2014,
Ordinance No. 247-15 passed April 13,
2015, and Ordinance 282-15 passed
June 1, 2015 upon a gross price basis
for the improvement in the aggregate
amount
of
$2,176,002.85
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director
of the Office of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into contract
with the bidder.

1218

Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by R.J.
Platten
Contracting
Company
is
hereby approved:
Subcontractor
Amount

CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

Cunningham Paving
$267,264.05

CSB
12.282%

Ramos Trucking
$124,616.00

CSB
5.726%

Tech Ready Mix
$58,084.00

CSB
2.669%

Industrial Surface Sealers
$11,963.00

CSB
.549%

Down to Earth Landscaping
CSB
$263,336.50
12.101%
Krusoe Sign
$22,985.00

non-certified
0.000%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.
Resolution No. 358-16.
By Director McGrath.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 705-16,
passed July 13, 2016 by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, authorizes
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies to convey an easement in
that portion of Permanent Parcel
No. 102-24-028, City-owned property
located at the northeast corner of
East 18th Street and Payne Avenue,
found and determined to be not
needed for public use and more fully
described in the ordinance, to East
Ohio Gas Company dba Dominion
East Ohio, at a price determined to
be fair market value by the Board
of Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Ordinance No. 705-16, passed
July 13, 2016 by the Cleveland City
Council, the price of $270.00 is determined to be fair market value for
the conveyance of an easement in
that portion of Permanent Parcel
No. 102-24-028, the aforementioned
City-owned property located at the
northeast corner of East 18th Street
and
Payne
Avenue,
more
fully
described in the ordinance, to East
Ohio Gas Company dba Dominion
East Ohio.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Safety is requested to execute and deliver the official deed of easement of the City of
Cleveland conveying the easement,
which deed of easement shall contain such additional provisions as
the Director of Law determines necessary to protect and benefit the
City’s interests.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.

The City Record

August 17, 2016

43

Resolution No. 359-16.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, by Ordinance No. 1061-14, passed by the Cleveland City Council on September 15, 2014, as amended by
Ordinance No. 96-15. passed on February 2, 2015, the Council authorized the Director of Public Works to enter into
one or more agreements with the Group Plan Commission, an Ohio non-profit corporation, regarding the redevelopment, construction, operations and programming of Public Square; and
Whereas, C.O. Section 131.07 requires a party conducting a “special event”, as defined in said Section to obtain
a permit; and
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 161-91, adopted March 20, 1991, established certain user rentals for
special events located, wholly or in part, on property owned or maintained by the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, agreements entered into between the City of Cleveland and the Group Plan Commission, delegate the
responsibility for administration of the use of Public Square and the issuance of special event permits to the
Group Plan Commission: and
Whereas, upon review of the recommendations of the Group Plan Commission regarding special event permit
fees, this Board of Control desires to approve a schedule of reservation fees for special events in Public Square
for the operations and programming of Public Square; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that, effective upon the adoption of this resolution,
as authorized by the Property Operations and Programming Agreement dated June 30, 2016 between the City and
the Group Plan Commission, and Resolution No. 161-91, adopted March 20, 1991, establishing user rentals for portions of Public Square, the following schedule of reservation fees is approved for all special events located on
Public Square:
1. Reservation Fees. All persons or entities sponsoring special events located on Public Square shall pay a daily
Reservation Fee calculated on a sliding scale. The Reservation Fee shall be composed of a base rent per day,
plus an additional amount based on the expected attendance (Size of Group Modifier); minus any discount for
eligible organizers, as follows:
Reservation Fee Base Rate Per Day Schedule
Speakers
Terrace
($50)

Tom L.
Johnson
Plaza
($100)

Perimeter
Garden(s)
($100/each)

Centennial
Plaza ($300)

Event
Lawn
($300)

Entire
Square
($750)

Size of
Group

0-49
($0)

$50

$100

$100

$300

$300

$750

Modifier

50-499
($100)

$150

$200

$200

$400

$400

$850

500-999
($300)

$350

$400

$400

$600

$600

$1,050

1000-1999
($750)

$800

$850

$850

$1,050

$1,050

$1,500

2000-4999
($1,000)

$1,050

$1,100

$1,100

$1,300

$1,300

$1,750

5000-9999
($1,500)

$1,550

$1,600

$1,600

$1,800

$1,800

$2,250

10,000+
($2,500)

$2,550

$2,600

$2,600

$1,800

$2,800

$3,250

Commercial
Photo or
Video Shoot
(exclusive use
of section)/4
hours

$250

$250

$250

$750

$750

Per
negotiation

2. Discounts for eligible organizers. Certain organizers of special events shall be entitled to a discount on the
Reservation Fee (not applicable to organizers of private ticket events), as follows:
Event Organizer

Discount

Governmental entities (with exception of existing annual or signature events
designated by City of Cleveland)

25%

501(c)(3) non-profit organization

50%

Schools (primary, elementary, secondary, and preschools) day cares, and
camps for children or youth

75%

No organizer of a private ticketed special event is eligible for a discounted Reservation Fee.
Be it further resolved that Resolution No. 161-91 is amended by deleting the user rentals established therein for
portions of Public Square and substituting the Reservation Fee rates set forth in this resolution.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Dumas, Davis, Acting Directors Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon, Acting Directors
Withers, Cosgrove, Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.

1219

44
Resolution No. 360-16.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 723-16,
passed July 13, 2016 by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, authorizes
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies, by and at the direction of
the City Board of Control, to convey
certain City-owned property known
as Permanent Parcel No. 012-26-007,
located immediately east of and
adjacent to 4305 Archmere Avenue,
found and determined to be not
needed for public use and more fully
described in the ordinance, to Linda
M. Myles, at a price not less than
the
appraised
value
of
$375.00,
which amount the Council has determined to be fair market value; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Ordinance No. 723-16, passed
July 13, 2016 by the Cleveland City
Council, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is directed to
convey the aforementioned Cityowned property known as Permanent Parcel No. 012-26-007, located
immediately east of and adjacent to
4305 Archmere Avenue, as more
fully described in the ordinance, to
Linda M. Myles at a price of $375.00.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor is requested to execute and
deliver the official deed of the City
of Cleveland conveying the property, which deed shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law determines necessary to protect the City’s interests.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.
Resolution No. 361-16.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on May 25, 2016, for
the capital maintenance and repair
of city facilities - plumbing, all
items, for the Division of Property
Management, Department of Public
Works, under the authority of Section 131.67 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.
Resolution No. 362-16.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Aggregate Construction,
Inc., for the rental of large capacity trucks with operators, all items,
for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Works, for an initial
period of eighteen months, beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, with two one-year renewal options, received on June 29, 2016
under the Ordinance 122-15, passed
by Cleveland City Council on March
14, 2016, which on the basis of the

The City Record
estimated quantity would amount to
$451,000.00 (Net), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Works is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractor
by Aggregate Construction, Inc. is
approved:
Percentage
Amount

Subcontractor

Booker & Son Trucking
0.000%
undetermined
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.
Resolution No. 363-16.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 119-29-049 located at 2245 East
85th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, David Brandon Roney
has proposed to the City to acquire
the parcel to correct an error in
property transfer; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with David Brandon
Roney for the sale of Permanent
Parcel No. 119-29-049 located at 2245
East 85th Street, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such

1220

August 17, 2016
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.
Resolution No. 364-16.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 107-06-071 located at 8226 Sowinski Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Patsy Threat Hewlett
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for yard
expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Patsy Threat
Hewlett for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 10706-071 located at 8226 Sowinski
Avenue, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.

The City Record

August 17, 2016
Resolution No. 365-16.
By Director Nichols.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 405-15, passed June 8,
2015, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, by
and at the direction of the Board of
Control, to convey certain Cityowned properties found and determined to be no longer needed for the
City’s public use, located east of
East 59th Street and Euclid Avenue
(the
“Property”)
more
fully
described in the ordinance, to Hemingway Development, LLC. (“Hemingway”), or its designee, in connection with the MidTown Health
Campus Project, at a price determined to be fair market value by
the Board of Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
405-15, passed June 8, 2015, by Cleveland City Council, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies is directed to convey the Property, located
east of East 59th Street and Euclid
Avenue and more fully described in
the ordinance, in “as is” condition
and subject to restrictive covenants
required
by
the
ordinance
and
including
the
environmental
covenant currently on the Property,
to Hemingway or its designee, for
the price of $1,195,000.00, which is
determined to be not less than fair
market value.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the Mayor and the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are requested to execute and
deliver
a
Purchase
Agreement
and/or an Option to Purchase Agreement and/or the official deeds of the
City of Cleveland conveying the
Property, which documents shall
contain such additional terms and
conditions as the Director of Law
shall deem necessary to protect the
public interest and shall specifically contain a provision against the
erection of any advertising signs or
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.

45

Subcontractor
Amount

CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

Ballast Fence
$33,000.00

CSB
4.275%

Tech Ready Mix, Inc.
$31,225.00
Cunningham Paving
$125,352.00
RAR Contracting
$45,000.00

68

EE

Emergency
Medical
Technician
(Trainee)

Open

50a

WR

Heavy Duty
Technician

Open

69

WR

Income Tax
Tracer

Open

Open

CSB
4.045%
CSB
16.241%
CSB
5.830%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Acting
Directors
Flask, Johnson, Director Gordon,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
Ebersole, Director Fumich, and Acting Director Hussain.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director West.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________

70

EE

Intelligence
Analyst I

71

EE

Intern Apprentice
Open

72

WR

Junior Clerk

73

WR/PERF
Machinist

74

EE

Master Plan
Examiner Non-Comp

75

EE

Patrol Officer
(Lateral)

Open

76

EE

Senior Tax
Auditor

Open

Open

Open

General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing will be notified of the results of
the examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
There-after, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of
the names of those candidates who
have been successful in all parts of
the examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.

77

WR

Tax Auditor II Open

78

WR

Airport
Operations
Agent I

Open

79

WR

Airport
Operations
Agent II

Open

80

WR

Airport
Maintenance
Worker - Field Open

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.

Resolution No. 366-16.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Nerone and Sons, Inc. for
the public improvement of the Lonnie
Burton
Recreation
Center
Improvements, Base Bid, all items,
for the Office of Capital Projects,
received on July 27, 2016 under the
authority of Ordinance No. 732-14,
passed June 9, 2014, upon a unit
basis for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $771,804.60, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of the Office of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into contract
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Nerone and Sons, Inc.
is approved:

ROBERT BENNETT,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2016
Filing Beginning 8/19/2016
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Exam
Type

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.

65

WR

Animal Control
Officer
Open

66

EE

Building
Inspector I Non-Comp

67

EE

Electrical Safety
Inspector I
Open

Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.

1221

Car insurance documents.

The City Record

46
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 65
ANIMAL
(OPEN)

CONTROL

OFFICER

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary for this position as established by Ordinance of
the Council of the City of Cleveland is
$17.64 - $18.36 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 15, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

August 17, 2016

the City to detect and prevent violations of animal control ordinances
and regulations; responds to incidents including stray animals, animal
bites, noise complaints, and animal
cruelty.
Chases,
apprehends,
impounds, and transports domestic,
exotic, and wild animals that are
stray, injured, and diseased. Uses
snares, catch poles, and traps to capture and impound animals. Places animals in animal service vehicle. Transports captured animals to the City’s
animal shelter. Investigates incidents
involving animal cruelty, animal
bites, and animal nuisances reported
by members of the public. Interviews
complainants, victims, and witnesses
in order to collect information on possible violations of animal control
laws, ordinances, and regulations.
Identifies, collects, and preserves evidence pertaining to investigations of
animal cruelty. Identifies the owners
of animals that are the subject of an
investigation. Gives verbal and written warnings as well as citations to
animal owners and animal handlers
who have violated ordinances and
regulations related to animal control.
Prepares incident reports and completes all forms pertaining to animal
control activities. Assists Cleveland
Safety Forces and other city departments by handling animals that are
present at crime scenes. Assists
bailiffs by handling animals present
during evictions. Testifies in court
and at hearings on the enforcement of
animal control citations and other
matters relating to animal control.
Performs kennel duties as required
by handling, feeding, cleaning, and
providing care to animals; maintains
the sanitary conditions of kennels.
Handles domestic, exotic, and wild
animals that are stray, injured, and
diseased. Performs euthanasia procedures on injured, sick, dangerous, or
unwanted animals by means of lethal
injection (when certified). Operates a
two-way portable radio, an animal
control service vehicle, catch poles,
traps, needles, syringes, computers
and other various pieces of office
equipment. Provides customer service
to residents and customers that enter
the kennel. Performs other job-related duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.

NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

FILING OF APPLICATION

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 66
BUILDING
COMP)

INSPECTOR

I

(NON-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $14.08 to $25.86 per Hour.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, performs
work of routine difficulty enforcing
animal control ordinances and regulations. Patrols assigned areas within

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. The equivalent of one year
of full time experience in the animal
handling/sheltering/care field is
required. Must obtain certification as
a Euthanasia Technician within one
year of the date of employment. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must be able to lift and
carry a minimum of 50 pounds. Must
be computer proficient and have the
ability to learn RMS system and Divisional computer programs.

1222

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, AUGUST 19, 2016 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016.

August 17, 2016
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

The City Record
trainee certification as a Building
Inspector and an OBBS interim certification as a residential building
inspector may substitute for Building
Inspector and Residential Building
Inspector certifications.)
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Under supervision of the Commissioner of Code Enforcement, makes
inspections of residential and commercial buildings and structures, or
any appurtenances connected or
attached to such buildings or structures in the course of construction for
the purposes of ensuring compliance
with laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations relating to the construction,
alteration, movement, enlargement,
replacement, repair, equipment, use
and occupancy, location, removal and
maintenance. Performs related duties
as required that pertain to enforcement of the Cleveland Housing, Building, and Zoning Codes as well as the
Ohio Building and Residential Codes.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam). Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 67

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required. A State of
Ohio Board of Building Standards
(OBBS) certification as a Building
Inspector and OBBS certification as a
Residential Building Inspector are
required. Must have and maintain certifications throughout employment.
One of the following is required:
Three years of full time paid experience as a construction contractor or
supervisor for non-residential buildings or structures within the scope of
groups regulated by the rules of the
board or; three years of full time paid
experience as a skilled tradesman for
work subject to inspection under a
model building code organization or a
code adopted for non-residential
buildings or structures within the
scope of groups regulated by the rules
of the board, or experience as specified in section 103.3.3(2) or; successful completion of a trainee program
pursuant to section 103.3.9. In addition to the above: Building Inspector I
– (Substitution: An OBBS interim or

ELECTRICAL SAFETY INSPECTOR
I (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $14.83 - $25.86 per Hour. The estimated salary for this position is $25.86
per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 15, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

1223

47
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under the supervision of the Commissioner of the Division of Code
Enforcement and the Bureau Manager - Building, makes inspections of
residential and commercial buildings
and structures for the purposes of
ensuring compliance with laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations relating to the design, installation, maintenance, alteration, repair, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use, and
inspection of electrical components,
equipment and systems used in buildings and structures. Performs related
duties as required that pertain to
enforcement of the Cleveland Housing Code, Cleveland Building Code,
Ohio Building Code, Residential Code
of Ohio, and the National Electric
Code. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One of the following is
required: (1) Must be a Journeyman
Electrician OR equivalent for four
years, two as an Electrician Unit
Leader, and two years as a building
department ESI trainee; (2) Must be a
Journeyman Electrician or equivalent for four years and have three
years’ experience as a building
department ESI trainee; (3) Must
have four years’ experience as a
building department ESI trainee; (4)
Must be a Journeyman Electrician or
equivalent for six years; or (5) Must
be an Electrical Engineer registered
in the State of Ohio. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
With exception for Electrical Safety
Inspector I where Interim Certifications are required, State of Ohio Board
of Building Standards (OBBS) certification as an Electrical Safety Inspector certification is required and must
be maintained throughout employment. In addition to the above: ELECTRICAL SAFETY INSPECTOR I – An
OBBS Interim Electrical Safety
Inspector certification is required, a
full certification is preferred.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide

The City Record

48
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 68
EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN (Trainee) (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary for this position as established by Ordinance of
the Council of the City of Cleveland is
$10.50 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
AUGUST 25, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, transports
sick and injured persons by ambulance to specified locations. Responds
to 911 ambulance calls and operates

an emergency vehicle in an appropriate and safe manner in accord with
the State and Local Laws. Administers pre-hospital care treatment within the limits defined by law within
the Division of Emergency Medical
Service and the State of Ohio. Completes patient care reports and related documentation thoroughly, complying with all billing requirements
as set forth by providers and the City
of Cleveland. Conducts equipment
and supply inventories on vehicles
while also maintaining routine daily
vehicle inspection. Follows all policy
and procedures according to the City
of Cleveland and the Division of
Emergency Medical Service. Completes the EMS Cadet Training Academy comprised of an initial 320 hr.
(minimum) classroom training and
certification classes, 80 hr. (minimum) field training and agility testing, as well as continuing education
sessions and meetings. Demonstrates
competency
in
EMT/Paramedic
knowledge. Attends and participates
in operations and safety training
classes when scheduled and demonstrates competence in protocols,
skills and the standard of care set
forth by the Division of Emergency
Medical Service (demonstration of
competence may be determined by
exam). Performs other related duties
as may be assigned or required to
meet emergency situations. Follows
all operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.

August 17, 2016
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 50A
HEAVY
(OPEN)

DUTY

TECHNICIAN

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $15.75 - $26.65 per Hour. The average hourly rate of current City of
Cleveland employees in this classification is $25.67.
FILING OF APPLICATION

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License with less than 6 points is
required and must be maintained
throughout employment. Must be able
to lift and carry a minimum of 100
pounds and be able to meet the physical demands of the position. Must currently be enrolled in or have completed the City of Cleveland EMT training program within the last year.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.

1224

Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 8, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
NOTE:
THOSE
PERSONS
WHO
HAVE ALREADY APPLIED BUT
HAVE NOT YET TESTED DO NOT
NEED TO FILE AGAIN.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

August 17, 2016

The City Record

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

SALARY

Under supervision, inspects, repairs,
adjusts, and services trucks and other
motorized equipment 20,000 GVW and
over. Makes other repairs and adjustments to secondary units. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $12.60 - $19.82 per Hour.

MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required, a Diploma from a High
School Or Trade School with training
in heavy duty truck and diesel repair
is preferred. Three years of full time
paid experience in the repair and
maintenance of motorized heavy
equipment 20,000 lbs. G.V.W. and over
is required. Must have the appropriate tools to perform required duties. A
valid State of Ohio Class B Commercial Driver’s License is required. Must
be able to lift and carry a minimum of
30 pounds.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 69
INCOME TAX TRACER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Verifies income tax returns for mathematical accuracy. Totals and corrects income, place of employment,
and residence. Codes and batches
income tax returns and verifies
scanned payment information on
CRTs. Receives and applies payments
on delinquent accounts. Performs
other related duties within or outside
the tax office. Follows all operations
and safety policies and safe work
practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of post-secondary schooling from an accredited
college or university is required, six
(6) credit hours of which must be in
Accounting. (Substitution: The equivalent of one year of experience in
Accounting, Bookkeeping, Auditing,
or closely related field may substitute
for each year of post-secondary
schooling lacking.) Must demonstrate exceptional mathematical ability.

1225

49
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 70
INTELLIGENCE
(OPEN)

ANALYST

I

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $38,000.00 - $54,641.81 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.

The City Record

50
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Performs preliminary research and
analysis of raw data from field,
reports, internet, police departments,
and other sources to be used in conjunction with the initiation and development of intelligence products.
Selects and draws data from intelligence sources, compiles information
into reports and bulletins, and assists
in preparing presentations to local
law enforcement agencies and joint
intelligence projects. Produces basic
narratives, reports, graphs, and link
charts based on analysis of intelligence. Analyzes Record Management
System information gathered. Studies
current literature to remain current
on research methodology and police
issues. Performs other related duties
as assigned or as the situation
requires. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

issued by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 71
INTERN APPRENTICE (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $14.86 - $15.62 Per Hour.

A Bachelor’s Degree in Business,
International Studies, Intelligence
Analysis, Criminal Justice, Statistics,
or related field from an accredited
four year college or university is
required. One year of full time professional experience performing duties
in researching, compiling, analyzing,
and fusing intelligence, preferably in
law enforcement (Internships are
acceptable). A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required. Certification in 28 Code of Federal Regulations Part 23 within 90 days of the
date of hire is required. Completion of
the Foundations of Intelligence
Analysis Training or similar training
as approved by the Fusion Center
Director within one year of the date of
hire is required. Must have experience with Microsoft Office (Word,
Excel, Access, and Power point) and
should be proficient in 12 Analyst
Notebook, GIS, and crime mapping
computer programs such as ArcView.
Should be able to pass an extensive
background investigation and maintain a secret security clearance as

Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
AUGUST 25, 2016.

FILING OF APPLICATION

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION:
Applicant’s grade will be determined
based on Education and Experience

1226

August 17, 2016
found in Resume. Each applicant is
required to submit a detailed resume of
his/her education and experience at
the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under the immediate supervision of
field operations staff, assists and/or
shadows line crews as they perform
the tasks associated with electrical
utility work. Obtains training in the
following areas: The safe operation
of electrical utility vehicles; the proper stocking and maintenance procedures for vehicles; the utilization of
applicable materials and supplies; the
proper use of safety equipment and
tools; the proper safety procedures for
working around electrical substations; how to work with electrical
transformers, streetlight wattages,
and voltages; and how to establish a
“safe work zone”. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations
and
safety
policies.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXMINATION
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS.
A High School Diploma (Must have
fulfilled all state and local requirements for graduation, including passage of all parts of the Ohio Graduation Test (OGT), unless validly
waived) or GED is required. A valid
State of Ohio Class A Commercial Driver’s License is required. Must have
completed all requirements of Cleveland Public Power’s Internship to
Apprenticeship Program, or an equivalent program as determined by the
Civil Service Commission upon the
recommendation of the Joint Apprentice Committee established by the
City and Local 39, International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers,
AFL-CIO. Must have a 93 percent
attendance record during Cleveland
Public Power’s Internship to Apprenticeship program, or an equivalent
internship program.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s

The City Record

August 17, 2016
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 72
JUNIOR CLERK (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary for this position as established by Ordinance of
the Council of the City of Cleveland is
$11.97 - $14.86 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under immediate supervision, does
clerical work of a routine nature. Performs related duties as required.
TYPICAL TASKS: Verifies files and
records. Checks lists, bills, and requisitions for accuracy. Files records,
bills, receipts, certificates, and correspondence. Prepares bills, cards, and
tallies. Records address changes, statistics, and operating data. Records
stock and material data. Types lists
and payrolls. Stamps forms, payrolls,
and records. Handles incoming and
outgoing mail. Delivers mail, messages, and reports. Traces records
and information. Sorts mail, invoices,
requisitions, and correspondence.
Operates office machines. Cleans and
oils office machines. Handles and
arranges stock. Assists at information desk and counter. Makes and
answers
work-related
telephone
calls.. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in an office setting with a
working knowledge of Microsoft
Office is required. Must be able to lift
and carry at least 30 pounds.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.

1227

51
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 73
MACHINIST (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $15.83 - $23.99 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST This portion
of the exam will be worth 60% of
Applicants’ Final grades. Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
PERFORMANCE TEST Applicants
will be required to demonstrate their
ability to operate the equipment listed in the Duties of the Position. This
portion of the exam will be worth 40%
of Applicants’ Final grades. Applicants MUST receive a passing score
on BOTH parts of the exam in order to
receive a score. Those persons who do
not pass both parts will receive a zero.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, operates lathes,
shapers, drill presses, and other
machine tools. Assembles, installs,
and repairs machinery of all kinds.
Performs related duties as required.
TYPICAL TASKS: Operates lathes,
shapers, milling machines, drill presses, grinders, and other machine tools
in fashioning and machining tools,
parts, and other articles of metal.
Assembles and erects new machinery
and equipment. Dismantles, rebuilds,

The City Record

52
and repairs turbines, engines, pumps,
stokers, and other machinery and
equipment. Maintains and repairs
boiler shop and power plant equipment. Does bench or hand work. Does
drilling, tapping, and flanging. Does
straightening, cutting, shaping, and
testing. Cleans and oils machinery
and equipment. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in a machine shop is
required. Must be able to operate various hand, power, and machine shop
tools. Must be able to work in confined spaces. A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. Must be
able to lift and carry a minimum of 50
pounds.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 74
MASTER PLAN EXAMINER (NONCOMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.

SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $23,647.11 to $112,409.91 per Year.
The estimated salary for this position
is $31.31 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, AUGUST 19, 2016 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

August 17, 2016
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A Bachelor’s Degree in Architecture
or Engineering from a four year
accredited college or university is
required. Five years of full time paid
experience in building design and
construction for buildings or structures within the scope of groups regulated by the rules of the Ohio Board of
Building Standards (OBBS) OR five
years of full time paid experience in
plan review is required. Must have a
State of Ohio Architect License or Professional Engineer’s License. OBBS
Interim Certification as a Master
Plan Examiner as well as an Interim
Certification as a Residential Building Official or Residential Plan
Examiner are required, full certifications are preferred. It is expected that
full Certifications will be secured during the period of time authorized by
OBBS. The Interim Certifications and
ultimately the full Certifications
must be maintained throughout
employment. A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s license is required. Must be
computer proficient using Word,
Excel, and Microsoft Office. Must be
able to lift and carry 30 pounds.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 75

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
PATROL OFFICER (Lateral) (Open)
Under the supervision of the designated Chief Building Official for the
City of Cleveland and the Commissioner of the Division of Construction
Permitting, reviews commercial and
residential construction documents
for conformance to the Ohio Building
Code, Residential Code of Ohio, Cleveland Zoning Code, and the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances. Prepares correction letters, adjudication orders, and
plan approval letters. Provides code
consultation with applicants, design
professionals, contractors, and developers. Represents the Department of
Building and Housing at hearings
and meetings including the Board of
Building Standards and the Board of
Zoning Appeals. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam).
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.

1228

Public notice is hereby given, by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio, of an open competitive
examination for the above classification.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made electronically through the City of Cleveland’s
web site:
http://www.city.cleveland.oh.us/City
ofCleveland/Home/Government/City
Agencies/CivilServiceCommission/T
estingAnnouncements
No other form or method of application will be accepted. Absolutely no
paper applications will be accepted.
THE APPLICATION PERIOD IS
FROM 12:01 A.M. ON FRIDAY,
AUGUST 19, 2016 UNTIL 11:59 PM. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 11:59 PM ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.

The City Record

August 17, 2016
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
NOTE: YOU ARE NOT APPLYING
FOR AN IMMEDIATE JOB OPENING.
YOU ARE APPLYING TO TAKE AN
EXAMINATION WHICH WILL BE
USED TO CREATE AN ELIGIBLE
LIST FOR THIS JOB CLASSIFICATION.THAT LIST WILL BE USED
FOR FUTURE HIRES IN THIS JOB
CLASSIFICATION.
FILING FEE
There is no Civil Service Filing fee.
SALARY
Candidates will be paid during their
time in the Academy.

NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, resumes and any
other required documents must be
uploaded and included with your
Application when it is submitted.
Applications without the required
documents will be rejected.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
RESERVES THE RIGHT TO VERIFY THE AFOREMENTIONED DOCUMENTS AND TO WITHHOLD THE
ACCEPTANCE OR REJECTION OF
APPLICATION UNTIL SUCH VERIFICATION CAN BE OBTAINED.
DRIVER’S LICENSE
Applicant must have a valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License PRIOR to
appointment to the Police Academy.
CITIZENSHIP

DUTIES
Under supervision of a Sergeant or
other superior officer, performs general and special police duty in an
assigned district or unit in the preservation of law and order. Protects life
and property. Enforces laws and ordinances. Prevents and detects crime.
Work involves an element of personal
danger. Acts without direct supervision and exercises independent judgment in meeting complex situations.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
AGE: Applicant must be a minimum
of 21 years of age and no older than 39
years of age AT THE TIME OF
APPOINTMENT TO THE CITY OF
CLEVELAND POLICE TRAINING
ACADEMY. An Associate’s Degree
from an accredited college or university is preferred. Three years of full
time paid continuous experience
within the last four years as the
equivalent of a Police Officer in the
State of Ohio (or part time equivalent) is required. For all periods of
employment, applicants must indicate the month and year for hire and
separation. If any experience is parttime, applicants must indicate the
number of hours worked per week.
Applicants must have Ohio Peace
Officer
Training
Academy
(O.P.O.T.A) certification.
EDUCATION: Applicants must indicate in their application, and attach
proof to their electronic application
profile, that they have received a
High School Diploma* from an
accredited educational institution or
have satisfactorily completed the
General Education Development Test
(GED). One of the following must be
presented:
A. High School Diploma
B. GED
C. Letter on official stationery from
High School or Board of Education
stating that the applicant did graduate.
D. DD-214 (Separation from Active
Duty) which indicates the individual
graduated from High School or
passed the General Education Development Test.
*If the applicant graduated from, for
example, a Charter School, was home
schooled, or graduated from a school
outside of Ohio, applicant MUST be
able to document that the requirements of the state in which the diploma/GED was issued were met.

Applicant must be a citizen of the
United States PRIOR to appointment
to the Police Academy.
WORK HOURS
A Police Cadet and Patrol Officers
must be available to work any shift
on any day of the week.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
ADDITIONAL SELECTION
PROCEDURES
Applicants who receive a passing
grade on the examination and rank
high enough on the eligible list to
receive Civil Service Certification
will be subject to the following examinations:
Drug Screening: Each applicant shall
undergo an examination for drug
usage. This examination may be in
the form of urinalysis. Any applicant
whose results from the drug screening examination are determined to be
positive shall be removed from the eligibility list unless such results can be
satisfactorily related to the advice of
a recognized medical practitioner.
Drug screening may also be conducted after appointment to the academy.
Background Investigation: Background investigation and evaluation
may include interviews with present
and previous employers. Neighbors
and family may be contacted as part
of the investigation. In addition, a
check of Local and State Police and
FBI records, both adult and juvenile,
and Bureau of Motor Vehicle records
will be made. The background test
also includes review of sealed and
expunged records. Unsatisfactory
findings in one or more of these areas

1229

53
may be cause for removal from the
Civil Service eligibility list. Conviction of a felony is absolute grounds
for removal from the list. Any applicant convicted of a felony will be
removed from the eligible list and
will receive no further consideration.
There are also misdemeanor convictions that would result in the removal
of an applicant from the eligibility
list.
Psychological Evaluation: A psychological evaluation to determine the
applicant’s emotional suitability to
perform all aspects of the job will be
conducted. Each applicant may be
required to take several written
examinations. These, along with the
results of the background investigation, will be submitted to one or more
psychologist(s)/psychiatrist(s) who
will interview the candidates. All
records of the psychological and
background examinations will be
made available to the Civil Service
Commission. The Commission will
review such records and make the
final determination of each applicant’s suitability for removal from
the eligible list.
Medical Examination: Any appointment to the position of Patrol Officer
will be conditioned upon passing a
pre-employment medical examination
conducted in accordance with the provisions of Title I of the Federal American’s with Disabilities Act (ADA). A
copy of the ADA may be obtained at
the Civil Service Commission Office
at a minimal cost or online. The standards for the medical examination
are available for review in the Office
of the Civil Service Commission and
online.
LIFE OF THE ELIGIBILITY LIST
The eligibility list from this examination will expire upon the establishment of the regular Patrol Officer eligibility list.
NOTE: PURSUANT TO THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND
AND RULES OF THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION AND THE OHIO
REVISED CODE:
Any applicant that willfully provides
any false document, statement, or certification in regard to any test will be
terminated from all processing,
removed from any eligible list, and
may face possible criminal prosecution.
VETERANS’ PREFERENCE
Veterans’ preference will be awarded,
when applicable, to eligible veterans
in accordance with Civil Service
Rules 4.40E, 4.40F and 4.40G.. Proof of
active service or a DD Form 214, must
be presented to the Commission at the
time of filing application for the
examination in which credit is sought
in order to qualify for veterans’ credit. If the applicant has received an
honorable discharge or a general discharge under honorable conditions
that applicant shall receive an additional five (5) points added to their
raw score on the examination.
NOTE: Only DD Form 214 (long form)
or an official armed service document
indicating type of discharge or separation and the dates of active service
will be accepted as proof of active service.

The City Record

54
NOTE: Applicants who desire additional Veterans’ Credit (as provided
for in Rule 4.40E) will be required to
submit a copy of an affidavit stating
the applicant’s date of separation
from active duty and date of discharge; and shall understand that
this affidavit will be subject to verification by the Civil Service Commission. Any false information provided
on this affidavit will be considered as
a falsification of application and
result in the applicant being removed
from the eligible list upon discovery
of the error (in accordance with Civil
Service Rule 5.40).THE COMMISSION
WILL NOT ENTERTAIN APPEALS
FOR VETERANS’ PREFERENCE
CREDIT AFTER THE APPLICANT
HAS FILED HIS/HER APPLICATION. THE DECISION OF THE COMMISSION IS FINAL.
TIE SCORES
In accordance with Civil Service Rule
5.10, in an Open examination, should
two or more applicants receive the
same grade, the order in which their
names shall be placed on the eligible
list shall be determined by random
selection.
WAIVER OF RULES
The Civil Service Commission hereby
waives all applicable rules or portions of its rules which may or may
not conflict with the Charter of the
City of Cleveland and/or litigation
involving this examination. In particular:
1. Rule 4.30D (The waiver of this Rule
shall mean that a medical examination will not be administered prior to
the establishment of the eligible list.)
2. Rule 4.30F (The waiver of this Rule
shall mean that applicants who fail
the psychological examination will
be automatically scheduled for reexamination to gain a second opinion.)
3. Rule 6.80 (The waiver of this Rule
shall mean that the probationary period for Patrol Officer shall be fixed at
six months, upon completion of the
Police Academy)
The aforementioned Civil Service
Rules are hereby waived either in
their entirety or in part. The Commission retains the right to waive other
Rule requirements as appropriate.
Applicants having questions regarding these waivers should contact the
Civil Service Office at (216) 664-2467.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 76
SENIOR TAX AUDITOR (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $53,926.03 per Year.

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative supervision,
audits and examines various municipal income tax accounts from individuals, businesses, and employers and
recommends areas for targeted compliance programs or in-depth audits.
Supervises tax auditors as assigned
to assure accuracy and validity of
work product. Assigns, performs,
summarizes,
and
communicates
results of tax investigations. Makes
recommendations for appropriate
action based upon results of investigations. Uses special secure and confidential databases. Conducts the
more complex compliance programs
and audits. Reconciles tax issues
related to special revenue districts
(e.g.: income tax revenue sharing districts, joint economic development
district/zones) and insures accuracy
of same via appropriate audit and
compliance programs. Represents
Central Collection Agency (CCA)
regarding tax matters in court and at
Board of Review hearings. Offers testimony under oath in regards to taxpayer appeals at these forums based
upon in-depth knowledge of specific
tax issues and prepares supporting
documentation for same. Attends
meetings with municipal officials in
member communities and makes presentations as required. Designs and
participates in targeted taxpayer
assistance and compliance programs.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and

1230

August 17, 2016
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Accounting,
Finance,
Business
Administration, or Public Administration is required, a Master’s Degree in
one of these fields is preferred. Two
years full-time paid experience in
preparation and auditing of income
taxes is required. (Substitution: Two
years of related experience may be
substituted for each year of college
lacking, up to two years) Must be
computer proficient and have experience with Income tax software,
Microsoft Office Suite, and the Internet. A CPA is preferred as is excellent
oral and written communication
skills and the ability to maintain the
highest level of confidentiality. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required (Or if current license is from
out-of-state, must be obtained within
one month of the date of hire.)
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 77
TAX AUDITOR II (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $15.48 - $22.84 per Hour.

August 17, 2016
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Is responsible for examining the most
complex tax returns for mathematical
accuracy of computations and the
legal validity of methods used in
arriving at the tax base and allowable deductions. Requires supervisory duties as well as performance.
Supervises
clerical
subordinates
involved in adjusting tax returns.
Distributes work to other auditors
and checking their completed work.
TYPICAL TASKS: Distributes tax
returns to other tax auditors for
appropriate analysis and action.
Reviews summaries of investigations
prepared by auditors prior to commencing compliance action. Makes
determinations with respect to completeness of legal preparations.
Supervises the auditing of financial
records of business firms and individuals to determine compliance with the
City income tax ordinance. Supervises the establishment and maintenance of income tax accounts. Confers with delinquent tax payers and
sets up schedules for paying back
taxes. Conducts or supervises investigations by searching directories,
courthouse records, telephone company records, Chamber of Commerce
files, and related offices to acquire
information needed in locating delinquent tax payers and determining
financial resources. Performs related
work as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE

The City Record

55

CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Accounting, Business, or related field
from a four year accredited college or
university is required. Four years of
fulltime paid auditing experience in a
government income tax office is
required. (Substitution: Two years of
experience may substitute for each
year of college education lacking.)

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 78
AIRPORT OPERATIONS AGENT I
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $17.13 - $22.05 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2016
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.

1231

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, assists in the operational management of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport to
maintain the airport operating certificate. Maintains current knowledge
base of applicable Federal Aviation
Regulations and FAA Advisory circulars. Ensures compliance with applicable regulations. Reviews operations
report of preceding shift, special
instructions, and nature of field conditions. Assists with the dissemination of field condition information.
Operates radio and telephone equipment.
Communicates
with
and
answers questions from public on airport operations and conditions. Helps
to coordinate movement of snow
removal crews, crash and rescue
crews, construction activity, and
vehicular movement activity. Monitors aircraft movement. Communicates with air carriers, FAA ATC, airport, and other government entities
as required. Escorts emergency, construction, and other approved vehicles as required. Makes regular
patrols and physical inspections of
field, airfield, and terminal conditions. Notes and reports safety violations, discrepancies potentially hazardous conditions, as well as operational and maintenance problems in
landing, hangar, ramp, roadways, terminal areas, and other airport properties. Conducts wildlife patrols, performing wildlife hazing and reduction procedures as necessary which
may require the use of a pyrotechnic
weapon and/or shotgun. May be
required to remove debris or dead
wildlife from aircraft operating
areas. Responds to and assists with
emergency situations as directed by
the Operations Supervisor. Escorts
emergency, construction, and other
approved vehicles as required. Monitors security, fire, and equipment
monitoring systems for alarms and
makes notifications and reports on
conditions as necessary. Logs and
bills incoming transient aircraft for
landing fees. Reviews daily log
entries and completes shift log,
reports, and records at close of shift.
Maintains files. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety

The City Record

56
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Aviation, Airport Management, or
related field from an accredited college or university is required. (Substitution: One year of experience in an
Airport Operations office or airport
operations-related experience may be
substituted for each year of college
education lacking. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
Must be able to type and possess general
computer
skills
including
Microsoft Office Suite products. Must
successfully complete a Transportation Security Administration (TSA)
fingerprint-based criminal history
records check and employment background check. Must be able to lift and
carry 50 pounds. Must be willing to
work in and out of doors in all weather conditions in a 24-hour operation,
including a non-standard work week.
Must have the ability to stand, walk,
and/or sit for extended periods of
time on a frequent basis. Must have
the constant ability to talk and hear.
Must possess both near and far visual
acuity.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 79
AIRPORT OPERATIONS AGENT II
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.

SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $21.52 - $25.96 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, AUGUST 19,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, assists in the
operational management of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
to maintain the airport operating certificate. Maintains current knowledge base of applicable Federal Aviation Regulations and FAA Advisory
circulars. Ensures compliance with
applicable
regulations.
Reviews
operations report of preceding shift,
special instructions, and nature of
field conditions. Assists with the dissemination of field condition information. Operates radio and telephone
equipment. Communicates with and
answers questions from public on
airport operations and conditions.
Helps to coordinate movement of
snow removal crews, crash and rescue crews, construction activity, and
vehicular movement activity. Monitors aircraft movement. Communicates with air carriers, FAA ATC,
airport, and other government entities as required. Escorts emergency,
construction, and other approved
vehicles as required. Makes regular
patrols and physical inspections of
field, airfield, and terminal conditions. Notes and reports safety violations, discrepancies potentially hazardous conditions, as well as operational and maintenance problems in
landing, hangar, ramp, roadways,
terminal areas, and other airport
properties. Conducts wildlife patrols,

1232

August 17, 2016
performing wildlife hazing and
reduction procedures as necessary
which may require the use of a
pyrotechnic weapon and/or shotgun.
May be required to remove debris or
dead wildlife from aircraft operating
areas. Responds to and assists with
emergency situations. Monitors security, fire, and equipment monitoring
systems for alarms and makes notifications and reports on conditions as
necessary. Logs incoming transient
aircraft for landing fees. Reviews
daily log entries and completes shift
log, reports, and records at close of
shift. Maintains files. Performs other
job-related duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe work practices. Attends
and participates in operations and
safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration
of competence may be determined by
exam.) Wears and properly utilizes
safety equipment in accordance with
Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Aviation, Airport Management, or
related field from an accredited college or university is required. Two
years of full time paid experience as
an airport operations agent is
required. (Substitution: One year of
experience in an Airport Operations
office or airport operations-related
experience may be substituted for
each year of college education lacking. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required. Must be able to
type and possess general computer
skills including Microsoft Office Suite
products. Must successfully complete
a Transportation Security Administration (TSA) fingerprint-based criminal history records check and
employment background check. Must
be able to lift and carry 50 pounds.
Must be willing to work in and out of
doors in all weather conditions in a 24hour operation, including a non-standard work week.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted

The City Record

August 17, 2016
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 80
AIRPORT MAINTENANCE WORKER - Field (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $19.09 - $19.86 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2016
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 15, 2015.

competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma from an
accredited high school program or
GED is required. The equivalent of
one year of full time paid experience
in the operation of heavy duty equipment and construction related equipment and other vehicles is required. A
valid State of Ohio Class “B” Commercial Driver’s License is required, a
Class “A” CDL is preferred. Must be
able to lift and carry 90 pounds. Must
have basic writing, communication,
and computer skills. Must be able to
work
non-standard
work
weeks/shifts
including
holidays
within a 24-hour operation in all
weather conditions and work overtime during snow removal operations.
Must comply with a Transportation
Security Administration (TSA) tenyear employment background check
and fingerprint-based criminal history records check.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.

TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION

Under supervision, assists in maintenance and repair work requiring
mechanical ability and familiarity
with airport equipment, facilities,
and buildings. Duties may include but
are not limited to snow removal, landscaping, concrete, asphalt, fencing,
sewer, grass cutting, and crack-sealing repairs. Must be familiar with the
operation and mechanism of building
appurtenances, hand held power
tools, and larger power equipment
and vehicles used in facilities maintenance work. Performs other job-related duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
August 17, 2016.

1233

57
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 2016
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 16-178: 2447 West 5th
Street (Ward 3)
Mendo Veloff, owner, proposes to
erect a 15' x 22' two story frame
addition to the front of an existing
single family residence in a B1 woFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 357.06(a) which states
that the required front yard setback
is 21' - 6" where the appellant is
proposing 12' - 10".
2.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 7' - 4 where the appellant is
proposing 1' - 4" and eaves and roof
overhangs are not defined = 0'.
(Filed July 15, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-179: 13215 Miles
Avenue (Ward 1)
131 Miles LLC., owner, proposes to
construct a new restaurant building
in a B1 Local Retail Business District. The owner appeals for relief
from the following sections of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 357.07 which states that
an
8
foot
specific
setback
is
required along Miles Avenue where
a 7 foot setback is proposed. Parking spaces are proposed within the
setback.
2. Section 343.18(c) which states
that a driveway is required to be a
least 15 feet from side property lines
and the proposed driveway is 4'
from property line. (Filed July 19,
2016)
Calendar No. 16-180: 5409 Bridge
Avenue (Ward 15)
Tupelo Properties 1 LLC., owner,
proposes to change the use of an
existing three family residence to
single family, erect a 20' x 23' second floor master bedroom addition
and detached garage in a C1 MultiFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 337.23(a) which states
that an accessory garage requires a
minimum distance of 18" from all
property lines including eaves and
gutters and distance is not shown
on the site plan.
2. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not exceed 50 percent of lot
size or in this case 2,175 square feet
where the appellant is proposing
2,313 square feet.
3. Section 357.09(b)(2)(A) which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot where
the appellant is proposing 8'.
4. Section 357.09(b)(2)(C) which
states that the Minimum Required
Interior Side Yard shall not be less
than 8' where the appellant is
proposing 5'.
5.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
states that Open Front porches shall
not project more than 6' where the
appellant is proposing 8' - 5"; said
porches shall not be less than 10'
from property line and the appellant

58
is proposing 5' - 3". (Filed July 19,
2016)
Calendar No. 16-184: 4011 Bridge
Avenue (Unit 4b) (Ward 3)
Triban Investments, LLC., owner,
proposes to erect a 20' x 28' - 8"
four story frame fee simple single
family
residence
with
attached
garage in a B1 wo Family Residential District. The owner appeal for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the Minimum Lot Area shall not
be less than 4,800 square feet and
the
appellant
is
proposing
600
square feet. his section also states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not be less than 50 percent of
lot size or in this case 300 square
feet and the appellant is proposing
1,403 square feet. The Minimum Lot
Width shall not be less than 40'
where the appellant is proposing
20'.
2. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the required Front Yard Setback is 4' - 6" and the appellant is
proposing 1' - 4".
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Required Rear Yard
is 34' - 4" no rear yard is proposed.
4.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot in Residence District where 4.75' and 0'
are provided.
5.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the total width of Interior Side Yards on same premises
shall not be less than 10' where the
appellant is proposing no interior
side yards.
6.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the Required Interior
Yard shall be not less than 8' - 6"
and no interior side yards are proposed. (Filed July 21, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-185: 4011 Bridge
Avenue (Unit 4a) (Ward 3)
Triban Investments, LLC., owner,
proposes to erect 20' x 28' three
story frame fee simple single family residence with attached garage in
a B1 wo Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the Minimum Lot Area shall not
be less than 4,800 square feet and
the
appellant
is
proposing
750
square feet. his section also states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not be less than 50 percent of
lot size or in this case 375 square
feet and the appellant is proposing
1,026 square feet. The Minimum Lot
Width shall not be less than 40'
where the appellant is proposing
25'.
2. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the required Front Yard Setback is 4' - 6" and the appellant is
proposing 2'.
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Required Rear Yard
is 26' - 3" no rear yard is proposed
4.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot in Residence District where 5' and 0' are
proposed.
5.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the total width of Interior Side Yards on same premises
shall not be less than 10' where the
appellant is proposing 5' and 0'.

The City Record
6.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the required Interior side
yard shall be not less than 6' - 6"
where the appellant is proposing 5'
and 0'. (Filed July 21, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-186: 4015 Bridge
Avenue (Ward 3)
Triban Investments LLC., owner,
proposes to erect a 20' x 50' three
story frame fee simple single family residence with attached garage in
a B1 wo Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the Minimum Lot Area shall not
be less than 4,800 square feet and
the appellant is proposing 1,684
square feet. his section also states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not be less than 50 percent of
lot size or in this case 824 square
feet and the appellant is proposing
1,403 square feet. The Minimum Lot
Width shall not be less than 40'
where the appellant is proposing
26.9'.
2. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the required Front Yard Setback is 3' and the appellant is
proposing no front yard setback.
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Required Rear Yard
is 32" and a 12.59' yard is proposed.
4.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot in Residence District where 6' and 3' are
provided.
5.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the total width of Interior Side Yards on same premises
shall not be less than 10' where the
appellant is proposing 6 foot interior side yards.
6.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the Required Interior
Yard shall be not less than 8' and
3' and 3' interior side yards are proposed.
7.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
states that Open porches shall not
be less than 10' from property line
where the appellant is proposing no
front setback from property line.
(Filed July 21, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-187: 1937 Randall
Road (Ward 3)
Triban Investments, owner, proposes to erect a 20' x 50' three story
frame fee simple single family residence with attached garage in a B1
wo-Family Residential district. The
owner is appealing for relief from
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the Minimum Lot Area shall not
be less than 4,800 square feet and
the appellant is proposing 2,050
square feet. his section also states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not be less than 50 percent of
lot size or in this case 1,025 square
feet and the appellant is proposing
1,538 square feet.
2. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the required Front Yard Setback is 7' - 6" and the appellant is
proposing no front yard setback.
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Required Rear Yard
is 32" and no rear yard is proposed.
4.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the total width of Interior Side Yards on same premises
shall not be less than 10' where the

1234

August 17, 2016
appellant is proposing 8.65' foot
interior side yards.
5.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the Required Interior
Yard shall be not less than 10'
where 3' and 5.65' interior side
yards are proposed.
6.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
states that Open porches shall not
be less than 10' from property line
where the appellant is proposing no
front setback from property line.
(Filed July 21, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-188: 4011 Bridge
Avenue (Sublot 3) (Ward 3)
Triban Investments, LLC., owner,
proposes to erect a 20' x 28' - 8"
four story frame fee simple single
family
residence
with
attached
garage in a B1 wo Family Residential District. The owner appeal for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 327.02(e) which states
that no portion of the building shall
project beyond any building line.
2. Section 353.01 which states that
the Maximum Height allowed is 35'
where the appellant is proposing
46'.
3. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the Minimum Lot Area shall not
be less than 4,800 square feet where
the
appellant
is
proposing
657
square feet. his section also states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not be less the 50 percent of
lot size or in this case 329 square
feet where the appellant is proposing 1,403 square feet; the Minimum
Lot Width shall not be less than 40'
and
the
appellant
is
proposing
21.91'.
4. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the Required Front Yard Setback is 4' - 6" and no front yard setback is proposed.
5.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Required Rear Yard
is 46' where 0' are provided.
6.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot in Residence District and 5' are proposed.
7.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the Total Width of Interior Side Yards on same premises
shall not be less than 10' where the
appellant is proposing 1.91' and 0'
side yards.
8.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the required interior side
yard shall not be less than 11' - 6"
where 1 - 91' and 0' are proposed.
(Filed July 21, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-199: 1953 Randall
Road (Sublot 5) (Ward 3)
Triban Investment, LLC., owner,
proposes to construct a fee simple
townhouse with attached garage as
part of a five unit development in
B1 wo Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot area per unit
required is 2,400 square feet and the
appellant is proposing 640 square
feet. his section also states that the
Minimum lot width allowed is 40'
and the appellant is proposing 16'.
2. Section 357.04(a) which states
that a 6' Front Yard is required
where 4.5' are proposed.
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Rear Yard shall not
be less than height of building or in

August 17, 2016
this case 40' is required where 2'
are proposed.
4. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B)In Two
Family interior side yard shall be
not less than 1/4 height of main
building(10')
and
per
357.09(b)(2)(1) no building shall be
erected less than 20' from a main
building on an adjoining lot within
such
district;
the
appellant
is
proposing 5' & 0' interior side
yards.
5. Section 353.02 which states that
the “1” Height District permits a 35'
maximum height and a 40' tall
house is proposed.
6. Section 355.04 which states that
the Maximum gross floor area of
building cannot exceed ½ lot area;
lot area allowed in this case 320
square feet where the appellant is
proposing 1,754 square feet. (Filed
August 1, 2016)

The City Record
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Rear Yard shall not
be less than height of building or in
this case 40' is required where 3'
are proposed.
4. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that in wo Family interior
side yard shall be not less than 1/4
height of main building (10') and
per 357.09(b)(2)(1) no building shall
be erected less than 20' from a main
building on an adjoining lot within
such
district;
the
appellant
is
proposing no interior side yards.
5. Section 353.02 which states that
the “1” Height District permits a 35'
maximum height and a 40' tall
house is proposed.
6. Section 355.04 which states that
the Maximum gross floor area of
building cannot exceed ½ lot area;
lot area allowed in this case 400
square feet where the appellant is
proposing 2,215 square feet. (Filed
August 1, 2016)

Calendar No. 16-200: 1953 Randall
Road (Sublot 6) (Ward 3)
Triban Investment, LLC., owner,
proposes to construct a fee simple
townhouse with attached garage as
part of a five unit development in
B1 wo Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot area per unit
required is 2,400 square feet and the
appellant is proposing 800 square
feet. his section also states that the
Minimum lot width allowed is 40'
and the appellant is proposing 20'.
2. Section 357.04(a) which states
that a 6' Front Yard is required
where 4' are proposed.
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Rear Yard shall not
be less than height of building or in
this case 40' is required where 2.5'
are proposed.
4. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that in wo Family interior
side yard shall be not less than ¼
height of main building (10') and
per 357.09(b)(2)(1) no building shall
be erected less than 20' from a main
building on an adjoining lot within
such
district;
the
appellant
is
proposing no interior side yards.
5. Section 353.02 which states that
the “1” Height District permits a 35'
maximum height and a 40' tall
house is proposed.
6. Section 355.04 which states that
the Maximum gross floor area of
building cannot exceed ½ lot area;
lot area allowed in this case 400
square feet where the appellant is
proposing 2,215 square feet. (Filed
August 1, 2016)

Calendar No. 16-202: 1953 Randall
Road (Sublot 8) (Ward 3)
Triban Investment, LLC., owner,
proposes to construct a fee simple
townhouse with attached garage as
part of a five unit development in
B1 wo Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot area per unit
required is 2,400 square feet and the
appellant is proposing 800 square
feet. his section also states that the
Minimum lot width allowed is 40'
and the appellant is proposing 20'.
2. Section 357.04(a) which states
that a 6' Front Yard is required
where 3' are proposed.
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Rear Yard shall not
be less than height of building or in
this case 40' is required where 3.5'
are proposed.
4. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that in wo Family interior
side yard shall be not less than 1/4
height of main building (10') and
per 357.09(b)(2)(1) no building shall
be erected less than 20' from a main
building on an adjoining lot within
such
district;
the
appellant
is
proposing no interior side yards.
5. Section 353.02 which states that
the “1” Height District permits a 35'
maximum height and a 40' tall
house is proposed.
6. Section 355.04 which states that
the Maximum gross floor area of
building cannot exceed ½ lot area;
lot area allowed in this case 400
square feet where the appellant is
proposing 2,215 square feet. (Filed
August 1, 2016)

Calendar No. 16-201: 1953 Randall
Road (Sublot 7) (Ward 3)
Triban Investment, LLC., owner,
proposes to construct a fee simple
townhouse with attached garage as
part of a five unit development in
B1 wo Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot area per unit
required is 2,400 square feet and the
appellant is proposing 800 square
feet. his section also states that the
Minimum lot width allowed is 40'
and the appellant is proposing 20'.
2. Section 357.04(a) which states
that a 6' Front Yard is required
where 3.5' are proposed.

Calendar No. 16-203: 1953 Randall
Road (Sublot 9) (Ward 3)
Triban Investment, LLC., owner,
proposes to construct a fee simple
townhouse with attached garage as
part of a five unit development in
B1 wo Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot area per unit
required is 2,400 square feet and the
appellant is proposing 640 square
feet. his section also states that the
Minimum lot width allowed is 40'
and the appellant is proposing 16'.
2. Section 357.04(a) which states
that a 6' Front Yard is required
where 3' are proposed.

1235

59
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Rear Yard shall not
be less than height of building or in
this case 40' is required where 4.5'
are proposed.
4. Section 357.05 which states that
in a wo Family District the side
street yard shall be not less than 5'
where 2.5' are proposed.
5. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that in wo Family interior
side yard shall be not less than 1/4
height of main building(10') and
per 357.09(b)(2)(1) no building shall
be erected less than 20' from a main
building on an adjoining lot within
such
district;
the
appellant
is
proposing no interior side yards.
6. Section 353.02 which states that
the “1” Height District permits a 35'
maximum height and a 40' tall
house is proposed.
7. Section 355.04 which states that
the Maximum gross floor area of
building cannot exceed 1/2 lot area;
lot area allowed in this case 320
square feet where the appellant is
proposing 1,754 square feet. (Filed
August 1, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-209: 4195 Lorain
Court Sublot 1 (Ward 3)
B.R. Knez, Construction, owner,
proposes to erect a 25' x 26' four
story frame single family residence
with attached garage in a B1 wo
Family Residential District. The
owner appeal for relief from the following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
7. Section 353.01(A) which states
that the maximum height allowed is
35' and the appellant is proposing
41 feet.
8. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the Minimum Lot Area shall not
be less than 4,800 square feet and
the appellant is proposing 1,230
square feet. his section also states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not be less than 50 percent of
lot size or in this case 615 square
feet and the appellant is proposing
2,932 square feet. The Minimum Lot
Width shall not be less than 40'
where the appellant is proposing
36.56 feet.
9. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the required Front Yard Setback is 6.51' and the appellant is
proposing 3.19 feet.
10.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Required Rear Yard
is 41' and the appellant is proposing 3.19 feet.
11. Section 357.09(2)(A) which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot in Residence District where zero feet are
proposed.
12.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the total width of Interior Side Yards on same premises
shall not be less than 10' where the
appellant is proposing 8.50 feet. The
required interior yard shall not be
less than 10.25 feet where the appellant is proposing 8.50 and zero.
13.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
states that Open Balconies shall not
be less than 10 feet from the property line where zero feet are proposed. (Filed August 4, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-210: 4195 Lorain
Court Sublot 2 (Ward 3)
B.R. Knez, Construction, owner,
proposes to erect a 25' x 37' four
story frame single family residence
with attached garage in a B1 Two

60
Family Residential District. The
owner appeal for relief from the following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 353.01(A) which states
that the maximum height allowed is
35' and the appellant is proposing
41 feet.
2. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the Minimum Lot Area shall not
be less than 4,800 square feet and
the appellant is proposing 1,230
square feet. his section also states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not be less than 50 percent of
lot size or in this case 615 square
feet and the appellant is proposing
2,932 square feet. The Minimum Lot
Width shall not be less than 40'
where the appellant is proposing
32.53 feet.
3. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the required Front Yard Setback is 8.23' and the appellant is
proposing 3.64 feet.
4.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Required Rear Yard
is 41' and the appellant is proposing 3.19 feet.
5.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot in Residence District where zero feet are
proposed.
6.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the total width of Interior Side Yards on same premises
shall not be less than 10' where the
appellant is proposing 8.50 feet. The
required interior yard shall not be
less than 10.25 feet where the appellant is proposing no interior side
yards.
7.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
states that Open Balconies shall not
be less than 10 feet from the property line where zero feet are proposed. (Filed August 4, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-211: 4195 Lorain
Court Sublot 3 (Ward 3)
B.R. Knez, Construction, owner,
proposes to erect a 25' x 37' four
story frame single family residence
with attached garage in a B1 wo
Family Residential District. The
owner appeal for relief from the following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 353.01(A) which states
that the maximum height allowed is
35' and the appellant is proposing
41 feet.
2. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the Minimum Lot Area shall not
be less than 4,800 square feet and
the appellant is proposing 1,699
square feet. his section also states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not be less than 50 percent of
lot size or in this case 849.5 square
feet and the appellant is proposing
2,860 square feet. The Minimum Lot
Width shall not be less than 40'
where the appellant is proposing
36.87 feet.
3. Section 357.04(a) which states
that the required Front Yard Setback is 10.5' and the appellant is
proposing 4.08 feet.
4.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Required Rear Yard
is 41' and the appellant is proposing 14.19 feet for the main structure
and 11.19 feet for a balcony.
5.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot in Residence District where zero feet and
9 feet are proposed.

The City Record
6.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the total width of Interior Side Yards on same premises
shall not be less than 10' where the
appellant is proposing 3.18 feet. The
required interior yard shall not be
less than 10.25 feet where the appellant is proposing zero feet and 3.18
feet for the interior side yards.
(Filed August 4, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-212: 4195 Lorain
Court Unit 4 (Ward 3)
B.R. Knez, Construction, owner,
proposes to erect a 22.05' x 27' - 10"
four story frame single family residence with attached garage in a B1
wo Family Residential District. The
owner appeal for relief from the following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 353.01(A) which states
that the maximum height allowed is
35' and the appellant is proposing
41 feet.
2. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the Minimum Lot Area shall not
be less than 4,800 square feet and
the
appellant
is
proposing
978
square feet. his section also states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not be less than 50 percent of
lot size or in this case 489 square
feet and the appellant is proposing
1,803 square feet. The Minimum Lot
Width shall not be less than 40'
where the appellant is proposing
22.05 feet.
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Required Rear Yard
is 41' and the appellant is proposing 5.82 feet for the main structure
and 2.82 feet for a balcony.
4.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot in Residence District where zero feet are
proposed.
5.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the total width of Interior Side Yards on same premises
shall not be less than 10' where the
appellant is proposing 3.19 feet. The
required interior yard shall not be
less than 10.25 feet where the appellant is proposing zero feet and 3.19
feet for the interior side yards.
(Filed August 4, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-213: 4195 Lorain
Court Unit 5 (Ward 3)
B.R. Knez, Construction, owner,
proposes to erect a 21.71' x 27' - 10"
four story frame single family residence with attached garage in a B1
wo Family Residential District. The
owner appeal for relief from the following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 353.01(A) which states
that the maximum height allowed is
35' and the appellant is proposing
41 feet.
2. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the Minimum Lot Area shall not
be less than 4,800 square feet and
the
appellant
is
proposing
848
square feet. his section also states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not be less than 50 percent of
lot size or in this case 424 square
feet and the appellant is proposing
1,780 square feet. The Minimum Lot
Width shall not be less than 40'
where the appellant is proposing
21.71 feet.
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Required Rear Yard
is 41' and the appellant is proposing 5.82 feet for the main structure
and 2.82 feet for a balcony.

1236

August 17, 2016
4.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot in Residence District where zero feet are
proposed.
5.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the total width of Interior Side Yards on same premises
shall not be less than 10' where the
appellant is proposing zero feet. The
required interior yard shall not be
less than 10.25 feet where the appellant is proposing zero feet for the
interior side yards. (Filed August 4,
2016)
Calendar No. 16-214: 4195 Lorain
Court Unit 6 (Ward 3)
B.R. Knez, Construction, owner,
proposes to erect a 21.67' x 27' - 10"
four story frame single family residence with attached garage in a B1
wo Family Residential District. The
owner appeal for relief from the following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 353.01(A) which states
that the maximum height allowed is
35' and the appellant is proposing
41 feet.
2. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the Minimum Lot Area shall not
be less than 4,800 square feet and
the appellant is proposing 1,032
square feet. his section also states
that the Maximum Gross Floor Area
shall not be less than 50 percent of
lot size or in this case 516 square
feet and the appellant is proposing
1,780 square feet. The Minimum Lot
Width shall not be less than 40'
where the appellant is proposing
21.67 feet.
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the Required Rear Yard
is 41' and the appellant is proposing 5.82 feet for the main structure
and 2.82 feet for a balcony.
4.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10' from main
building on an adjoining lot in Residence District where zero feet are
proposed.
5.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the total width of Interior Side Yards on same premises
shall not be less than 10' where the
appellant is proposing 4.20 feet. The
required interior yard shall not be
less than 10.25 feet where the appellant is proposing 4.20 feet and zero
feet for the interior side yards.
(Filed August 4, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-215: 4195 Lorain
Court Corner lot (Ward 3)
B.R. Knez, Construction, owner,
proposes to place a 6' x 6' dumpster on a vacant lot in a B1 wo Family Residential District. The owner
appeal for relief from the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 357.13(b) which states
that a dumpster is not a permitted
Front Yard and Side Street Yard
encroachment.
2. Section 358.04(a) which states
that fences in the Front Yard and
Side Street Yard shall not exceed 4
feet in height and shall be at least
50% open where the appellant is
proposing a 5 foot tall solid vinyl
fence. (Filed August 4, 2016)
POSTPONED FROM JULY 25, 2016
Calendar No. 16-144: 1684 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 3)
Edward Kopp, owner, proposes to
erect a 29' - 6" x 78' three story
frame single family residence with

The City Record

August 17, 2016
attached garage on irregular shaped
lot located in a B1 wo-Family Residential District and a K1 Local
Retail Business District. The owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of the following sections
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the maximum gross floor area
shall not be greater than 50% of lot
size or in this case 2,583 square feet
and 4,077 square feet are proposed.
2.
Section
357.09(b)(3)
which
states that on irregular shaped lots
no interior side yard shall be less
than 3' at any point and the appellant is proposing 5" and 3'.
3.
Section
357.09(b)(2)
which
states that no building shall be less
than 10' from a main building on
adjoining lot where the appellant is
proposing 0' and 3'. (Filed June 8,
2016 - No testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant due to a
scheduling conflict.
REHEARING FROM MAY 23, 2016
Calendar No. 16-034: 3934 Lee Road
(Ward 1)
Strawbridge Family Corp., owner,
proposes to change use to a funeral
home and construct a parking lot in
a C1 Local Retail Business District
and an A1 One-Family Residential
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 343.11(G) which states
that a funeral home is first permitted in the General Retail Business
District; The proposed location is in
the Local Retail Business District.
2. Section 357.14(a) which states
that a parking is not a permitted
front yard encroachment on Biltmore Avenue
3. Section 352.09 which states that
an eight (8) foot wide landscaped
transition strip is required where a
Local Retail Business District abuts
a Single Family Residence District
where no landscaped strip is proposed.
4. Section 352.10(c) which states
that a minimum six (6) foot wide
landscaped
frontage
strip
is
required for parking lots and none
are proposed. (Filed February 24,
2016 - testimony taken)
On May 23, 2016, a motion to
approve failed 2-1 (at the time the
only variance needed was item number 1 as the revised plan satisfied
the landscapinge issues). The appellant requested and was granted a
rehearing to take place when the
Board had a full complement of
members.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, August
15, 2016 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

(Unit A out of six units) in a B1
wo-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-106: 1914 West 48th
Street (Unit C)
4201 Bridge LLC., owner, proposes
to construct a fee simple townhouse
(Unit C out of six units) in a B1 woFamily Residential District.

61
Calendar No. 16-171: 4502 Clinton
Avenue
Jim Curley and Mike Kane, owners, propose to change use of existing two family residence into a single family residence and construct
an attached 17' x 22' 1 story frame
flat roof garage.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-107: 1912 West 48th
Street (Unit B)
4201 Bridge LLC., owner, proposes
to construct a fee simple townhouse
(Unit B out of six units) in a B1 woFamily Residential District.

The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:

Calendar No. 16-108: 1916 West 48th
Street (Unit D)
4201 Bridge LLC., owner, proposes
to construct a fee simple townhouse
(Unit D out of six units) in a B1
wo-Family Residential District.

Calendar No. 16-117: 4533 Warner
Road
Rightway
Investments,
owner,
proposes to establish use as Motor
Vehicle Facility in a C1 Local Retail
Business District

Calendar No. 16-109: 1918 West 48th
Street (Unit E)
4201 Bridge LLC., owner, proposes
to construct a fee simple townhouse
(Unit E out of six units) in a B1
wo-Family Residential District.

The following
MISSED:

Calendar No. 16-110: 1920 West 48th
Street (Unit F)
4201 Bridge LLC., owner, proposes
to construct a fee simple townhouse
(Unit F out of six units) in a B1 woFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-111: 1912-1920 West
48th Street (Common Drive - Lot
G)
4801 Bridge LLC, owner, proposes
to construct a common drive for a
six townhouse development (units
numbers A through F) on Bridge
Avenue and West 48th Street in a
B1 wo-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-127: 3615 Superior
Avenue
Tylerville, LLC., owner, proposes
to erect three (3) single faced nonilluminated signs in a B3 General
Industry District. The dimensions of
the signs are approximately 1' x 10
- 10"', 2' x 16' - 6" and 2' - 7" x 8'
- 7".
Calendar No. 16-158: 1811 Brevier
Avenue
Stephen Duirk, owner, proposes
erect an 18' x 25' one story frame
reverse
gable
accessory
garage
attached to existing single family
residence in a C1 Multi-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-166: 8105 Whitethorn
Avenue
Deborah Gordon, owner, proposes
to change her existing two family
residence into a three family residence in a B1 wo-Family Residential
District.

None.

appeal

was

DIS-

Calendar No. 16-76: Appeal from
Decision of Landmarks Commission
Kathleen Thomas appeals under
the authority of Section 76-6(b) of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland
and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from the
decision of the City of Cleveland
Landmarks Commission rendered on
March 24, 2016
The following cases were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 16-84: Curtis A. Hart
589 East 185th Street. Postponed to
September 19, 2016.
Calendar No. 16-164: U.C.C.
700 Prospect Avenue. Postponed to
September 26, 2016.
The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, August 8, 2016 and the decisions were adopted and approved on
Monday, August 15, 2016:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-59: 2376 Professor
Avenue
Don Shury, owner proposes to
erect a three story retail and two
dwelling unit building in a C1 General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 16-149: 927 East 123rd
Street
Paul McPherson, owner, proposes
to add carry-out restaurant use to
barber shop and beauty salon in a
C1 Local Retail Business District.

Calendar No. 16-167: 6505 Lansing
Avenue
Polish American Cultural Center
proposes to erect a 1,293 square foot
addition in a B1 wo-Family Residential District.

Calendar No. 16-152: 4009 Fulton
Court
Niagara Homes L D., owner, proposes to establish use as residence
and production and sales of furniture, ceramic and metal products,
and woodworking in a D3 Local
Retail
Business
District
and
a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District.

Calendar No. 16-168: 2232 West 11th
Street
Microhouse Cleveland, owner, proposes to construct a paved parking
area in a B1 Multi-Family Residential District.

Calendar No. 16-157: 781 Starkweather Avenue
Akram Boutros, owner, proposes
erect a 21' x 26' two story frame
single family residence on the front
half of a lot maintaining an existing

were

Calendar No. 16-105: 4801 Bridge
Avenue (Unit A)
4201 Bridge LLC., owner, proposes
to construct a fee simple townhouse

1237

The City Record

62
single family residence on rear half of
lot in a B1 wo-Family Residential
District.
Calendar No. 16-162: 4720 Brookpark
Road
Bassam Shihada, owner, proposes
to establish a parking lot in a B3
General Industry District.
Calendar No. 16-163: 14213 Clifford
Avenue
Jeffrey Sommer and Korky Thacker, owners, propose to erect a 16' x
36' - 11" two story frame greatroom
addition to existing single family
residence located on a lot that is 80'
x 120' that is zoned A1 One-Family
Residential.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
August 10, 2016
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-112-16.
RE: Appeal of Regina A. Fortner,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
2214 East 70th Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER, dated April 7,
2016 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until September 15, 2016 to
obtain all required permits to raze
the
property;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-115-16.
RE: Appeal of Denise Wells-Seals,
Owner of the M Mercantile — Retail
Shops, Carry-out Food Shops One
Story Masonry Property, located on
the premises known as 3938 East
147th Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated May 16, 2016 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until September 15, 2016 to
complete the plans and obtain all
required permits to complete the

work, noting that failure to meet
the thirty (30) day deadline to
obtain permits will result in the
property being REMANDED immediately; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-117-16.
RE:
Appeal
of
Keith
Brown,
Owner of the M Mercantile — Retail
Shops, Carry-out Food Shops One
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 1927 Columbus Road from a STOP WORK
ORDER, dated April 26, 2016 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until September 15, 2016 to
prepare documents and obtain all
required permits to continue to
work. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-118-16.
RE: Appeal of Schultz Financial
Company, LLC, Owner of the One
Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 6805 Hague Avenue from
a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE
DAMAGE, dated May 12, 2016, of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-118-15 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
August 24, 2016.
*    *    *
Docket A-119-16.
RE: Appeal of First Prospect
Development LLC, Owner of the
Property, located on the premises
known as 3814 Prospect Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
FIRE CODE, dated May 12, 2016 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-119-16 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for October 5, 2016.
*    *    *
Docket A-120-16.
RE: Appeal of Scott L. Scrivens,
Owner of the B Business — Offices,
Laboratories,
Adult
School
Two
Story Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry
Veneer Property, located on the
premises known as 2628 Detroit
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated May 17, 2016 of the

1238

August 17, 2016
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-120-16 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
August 24, 2016.
*    *    *
Docket A-121-16.
RE: Appeal of James R. Billups
C/O Joan Hampton, Owner of the
VL Vacant Lot, located on the
premises
known
as
7405
Cedar
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated May 6, 2016 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-121-16 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for September 7, 2016.
*    *    *
Docket A-125-16.
RE: Appeal of Joseph M. Mementowski, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence One &
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3454
East
52nd
Street
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated June
7, 2016 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until January 1, 2017 to
obtain all required permits and complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-145-16.
RE: Appeal of 2044 Euclid Lofts,
LLC, Owner of the Property, located
on the premises known as 2044
Euclid Avenue from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated June 22, 2016
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date; the docket is
rescheduled for September 7, 2016.
*    *    *
Docket A-148-16.
RE:
Appeal
of
Arthur
Ray
Lawrence,
Owner
of
the
Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 3343 East 49th Street from
a
NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
May 18, 2016, of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).

The City Record

August 17, 2016
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s request for additional
time, the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):

A-142-16 — Medici Properties LLC
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting:
Messrs. Saab, Maschke.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
July 27, 2016
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

A-98-16 — Nathan A. Prusak
A-101-16 — Christine Kis
A-104-16 — Robert Watson
A-105-16 — Joseph Henderson
A-108-16 — 2015 West 53rd Cleveland LLC
A-110-16 — Georgianna B. White

PUBLIC NOTICE

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

*    *    *
NONE
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-99-16
A-102-16
A-103-16
A-106-16

—
—
—
—

Cleveland Harris
Thor Real Estate
Carla Robinson
Paul Bunn

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolution as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Docket respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-107-16 — Jezeel Acosta
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolution as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Docket respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised, the following notice shall
be included in the advertisement:
“Pursuant to the MBE/FBE Code,
each prime bidder, each minority
business enterprise (“MBE”) and each
female business enterprise (“FBE”)
must be certified before doing
business with the City. Therefore, any
prime contractor wishing to receive
credit for using an MBE or FBE
should ensure that applications for
certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative
action
in
employment
and,
if
applicable, joint venture status, are

1239

63
submitted to the office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the date
of bid opening or submission of
proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations made on these forms
may result in cancellation of the
contract or other civil or criminal
penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2016
File No. 91-16 — Fencing and Gates
Including Labor and Materials
for Repair and Installation, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 33316, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 25, 2016.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OH 44135.
File No. 92-16 — Labor & Materials
to Maintain Vehicles, Trucks and
Various Types of Equipment (ReBid), for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
225-15, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, April 27,
2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016 AT
10:30 A.M. CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OH 44135.
August 10, 2016 and August 17, 2016
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2016
File No. 93-16 — Sewer Maintenance
Appurtenance Slabs for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Section 129.27 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016 AT 11:30
A.M. THE DIVISION OF WATER
POLLUTION
CONTROL,
12302
KIRBY AVENUE, RED CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND, OH
44108.
File No. 94-16 — Disposal of Catch
Basin Debris (Re-Bid), for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.29 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016 AT 11:00
A.M. THE DIVISION OF WATER
POLLUTION
CONTROL,
12302
KIRBY AVENUE, RED CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND, OH
44108.
August 17, 2016 and August 24, 2016

The City Record

64
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
File No. 95-16 — Highland Park
Cemetery
Mausoleum
Improvements (Re-Bid), for the Office of
Capital Projects, Department of
Public Works, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 537-12, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 14, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
OR
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
AT 11:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
ARCHITECTURE
AND
SITE
DEVELOPMENT, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 517A, CLEVELAND, OH 44114.
August 17, 2016 and August 24, 2016

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 812-16.
By Council Members McCormack,
Cleveland, K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Andes Court S.E.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Andes Court S.E., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion of the following described real
property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known be a portion of
Andes Court S.E. (16.5 feet wide)
(formerly Orchard Court) in Case’s
Addition to Cleveland of part of
Original Ten Acre Lot Numbers 1
and 2 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 0 of Deeds, Page 477 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being further described as follows:
Being all that portion of said
Andes Court (16.5 feet wide) (formerly Orchard Court) extending
from the West line of East 9th
Street (66.00 feet wide) (formerly
Cross Street) northwesterly to its
intersection with the southerly right
of way line of Ramp E-2 of the
Innerbelt Freeway also being the
southwesterly prolongation of the
northwesterly property line of Parcel No. 4 in the deed to McElwee
Properties, LLC recorded in AFN
201310160583 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.

Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 932-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 1503 Spring Road, 1st
floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
77446580005 owned by Sarkis, LLC,
1503 Spring Road, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

1240

August 17, 2016
Res. No. 933-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 14222
Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1897646
owned by Dailey’s, Inc., 14222 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.271
of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 934-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X and
D3 Liquor Permit at 2301 Broadview
Road, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and

August 17, 2016
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X and D3 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 9115311 owned by 2301 Enterprises,
Inc., DBA Old Brooklyn Social Club
and patio, 2301 Broadview Road, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 935-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit at 4818-22
Memphis Avenue and patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in

The City Record
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3845983 owned by H I M,
Inc., DBA Memphis Tavern, 4818-22
Memphis Avenue and patio, Cleveland,
Ohio
44144,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 936-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 5200 Memphis
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and

1241

65
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7315819 owned by Revenue, Inc., 5200
Memphis Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44144, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 937-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 6101 Memphis Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 4525622
owned by Kay Em Cee, LLC, DBA The

66
Pour House Memphis, 6101 Memphis
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 938-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 4301 State Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8725043
owned by Swagger Tavern, LLC, 4301
State Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be

The City Record
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 939-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 4693
State Road, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 381965 owned by
Nicetime, Inc., DBA Dirty Dog, 4693
State Road, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.

1242

August 17, 2016
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 940-16.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of location of a
D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit
to 668 Euclid Avenue, Suite 8.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of an
application for the transfer of location
of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit
from Pololu, Ltd., 12018 Mayfield
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44106,
Permanent Number 70088790005 to VIP
Beauty Bar, LLC, DBA Manifest, 668
Euclid Avenue, Suite 8, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
9283393; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets, is
contrary to the best interests of the
entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated
his liquor business in disregard of the
laws, regulations or local ordinances
of this state or any other state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the
building,
safety
or
health
requirements of the governing body of
this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor
Control
are
prevented
reasonable
access
to
the
establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good order;
and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code. Council’s
objection to said permit must be
received by the Superintendent of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6
Liquor Permit from Pololu, Ltd., 12018
Mayfield Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44106,
Permanent Number 70088790005 to VIP
Beauty Bar, LLC, DBA Manifest, 668
Euclid Avenue, Suite 8, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
9283393;
and
requests
the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in

August 17, 2016
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 941-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 870 East 185th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4969821 owned by Carla LaGrutta,
DBA Quix, 870 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 942-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 15222 Waterloo
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9427085 owned by Waterloo Gas & Go,
Inc., 15222 Waterloo Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44110,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

1243

67
Res. No. 943-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 15504 Waterloo
Road & Gas Pumps.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5339250 owned by Lucky Times, LLC,
DBA Freeway Sunoco, 15504 Waterloo
Road and Gas Pumps, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 944-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
1303 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of an
application for a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Neetu Foods, Inc., 1303 Clark
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permit
Number 6331968; and

68
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets, is
contrary to the best interests of the
entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated
his liquor business in disregard of the
laws, regulations or local ordinances
of this state or any other state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the
building,
safety
or
health
requirements of the governing body of
this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor
Control
are
prevented
reasonable
access
to
the
establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good order;
and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code. Council’s
objection to said permit must be
received by the Superintendent of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Neetu Foods, Inc., 1303 Clark
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permit
Number 6331968; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 945-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 7020 Harvard
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds

The City Record
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3648441 owned by Harvard Gas, LLC,
DBA Harvard Gas USA, 7020 Harvard
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 946-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3578 Independence Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and

1244

August 17, 2016
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 4949651
owned by LRC Enterprises, LLC, DBA
Club 1227, 3578 Independence Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 947-16.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
968 East 105th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of an
application for a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Gee Gee Grocery Co., DBA
Gee Gee Grocery, 968 East 105th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permit Number
8932938; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets, is
contrary to the best interests of the
entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated
his liquor business in disregard of the
laws, regulations or local ordinances
of this state or any other state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the
building,
safety
or
health
requirements of the governing body of
this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor
Control
are
prevented
reasonable
access
to
the
establishment; and

August 17, 2016
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good order;
and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code. Council’s
objection to said permit must be
received by the Superintendent of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Gee Gee Grocery Co., DBA
Gee Gee Grocery, 968 East 105th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permit Number
8932938;
and
requests
the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 948-16.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the Liquor
Agency Contract located at 12408
Union Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 827-16.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the Liquor Agency Contract at
Fakhoury Enterprises, Inc., 12408
Union Avenue, Unit A, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 2600031 by
Resolution No. 827-16 adopted by the
Council on July 13, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
Liquor Agency Contract at Fakhoury
Enterprises, Inc., 12408 Union Avenue,
Unit
A,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
Permanent Number 2600031, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 827-16, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 949-16.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 12408 Union Avenue, Unit
A and repealing Resolution No. 82816 objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit to Fakhoury
Enterprises, Inc., 12408 Union Avenue,
Unit
A,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
2600031
by
Resolution No. 828-16 adopted by the
Council on March 14, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit to Fakhoury
Enterprises, Inc., 12408 Union Avenue,
Unit
A,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
Permanent Number 2600031, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 828-16, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 950-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 1201 East 185th
Street and repealing Resolution No.
272-16, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
New C1 Liquor Permit at 185 Gas, Inc.,
1201 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permanent Number 6548391 by
Resolution No. 272-16 adopted by the
Council on February 29, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

1245

69
Section 1. That objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 185 Gas, Inc., 1201
East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permanent Number 6548391, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 272-16, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 951-16.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 3916 East 123d Street, 1st
floor only and repealing Resolution
No. 164-16 objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to 3916 East 123rd, Inc.,
DBA Food Plus, 3916 East 123rd Street,
1st floor only, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent
Number
8871329
by
Resolution No. 164-16 adopted by the
Council on February 8, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to 3916 East 123rd, Inc.,
DBA Food Plus, 3916 East 123rd Street,
1st floor only, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 8871329, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 164-16, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 952-16.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 11619
Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and

70
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8306025 owned by Lorain
Entertainment,
LLC,
DBA
West
Enders, 11619 Lorain Avenue, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
and requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 953-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 5351-53
Dolloff Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has

The City Record
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9862110 owned by Your
Place & Mine LLC, DBA Your Place &
Mine, 5351-53 Dolloff Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44127,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 954-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor
Permit
at
13601
Lorain
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the

1246

August 17, 2016
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 5804911
owned by Meera, Inc., DBA Lorain
Sunoco,
13601
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 955-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 14939 Puritas
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a

August 17, 2016
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4179234 owned by JBI Enterprises,
Inc., DBA Cleveland Deli & Beverage,
14939 Puritas Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44135, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 956-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 4282 West 130th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 90092450005 owned by Touma, LLC,
4282 West 130th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44135,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to

The City Record
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 957-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 462529 West 130th Street and patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 7140274 owned by
Quiet Bobs, Inc., DBA Quiet Bobs Bar
& Grill, 4625-29 West 130th Street and
patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to

1247

71
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 958-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4050 West 140th
Street and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7059014 owned by Pram Corporation,
DBA Friendly Food Mart, 4050 West
140th Street and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44135,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

72
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 959-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 7216 Clark Avenue, 1st
floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5
Liquor
Permit,
Permit
No.
4181670005 owned by K & C, Inc., 7216
Clark Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 960-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor
Permit
at
8808
Detroit
Avenue.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8058781 owned by Shean Corporation,
Inc., DBA Dairy Mart 5 4858, 8808
Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
and requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 961-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1121315 Detroit Avenue, 1st floor, basement and patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and

1248

August 17, 2016
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8093311 owned by Shlomba,
LLC, DBA Now That’s Class, 11213-15
Detroit Avenue, 1st floor, basement
and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 962-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 8701 Lake Avenue,
1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and

August 17, 2016
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5120787 owned by Lena Mart, Inc., 8701
Lake Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 963-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 7201 Lorain
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No.
0222256
owned
by
Anila
Enterprises, LLD, DBA Convenient
Food Mart, 7201 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 964-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 3021 West 105th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4161716 owned by Its Always Partly
Sunny in Cleveland, LLC, DBA Time
Out Bar and Grill, 3021 West 105th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in

1249

73
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 965-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 6506 Fleet Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7638470 owned by 6506 Fleet Avenue,
LLC, 6506 Fleet Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon

74
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 966-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 12820 Brookpark Road and
patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2977644
owned by G L M R, Inc., DBA Secrets,
12820 Brookpark Road and patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44130, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 967-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3266 West 117th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8916603 owned by 3266 West 117th
Street, LLC, DBA Gas USA, 3266 West
117th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
and requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

1250

August 17, 2016
Res. No. 971-16.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 2603 Woodhill
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 4118409 owned by Ibald, Inc., DBA
American Food Mart, 2603 Woodhill
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 972-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 2625 East 55th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the

August 17, 2016
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7148708 owned by R & H Gas, Inc., DBA
East 55th Street Shell, 2625 East 55th
Street, North Unit, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 973-16.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3363 East 93rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or

The City Record
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0077921 owned by AH & TA, Inc., 3363
East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 974-16.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 4324 Warner Road,
1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be

1251

75
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
76440620001 owned by Jerry Saa, DBA
P N G Supermarket, 4324 Warner
Road, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
and requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 975-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 4703 Pearl Road,
1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5476818 owned by Mandy’s Lounge,
Inc., DBA Mandy’s, 4703 Pearl Road,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,

76
Ohio
44109,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 976-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 5275-79 Broadway
Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8939161 owned by Tina 1 2 3, Inc., DBA
Mike’s Beverage, 5275-79 Broadway
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44127, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of

The City Record
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 977-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 7401-05 Central
Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3452641 owned by Gurdev, Inc., DBA
Deeps State Liquor & Market, 7401-05
Central
Avenue,
1st
floor
and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.

1252

August 17, 2016
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 978-16.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 7902-14 Central Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8876756
owned by Dionne Mae Thomas, DBA
Josephine’s Lounge, 7902-04 Central
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

August 17, 2016
Res. No. 979-16.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 11132
Buckeye Road, P.O. Box 20370.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6877045 owned by Phase III
Corp., 11132 Buckeye Road, P.O. Box
20370, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 980-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 11526-28 Clifton
Boulevard.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9060830 owned by Tripod Tavern, Inc.,
DBA Tick Tock Tavern & Patio, 1152628 Clifton Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 981-16.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2886 Woodhill
Road, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in

1253

77
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9804492 owned by Ya Corp., Inc., DBA
Nikkis Market, 2886 Woodhill Road,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
and
requests
the
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 982-16.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 3111 East 93rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of

78
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 7650370 owned by Sabah Hanini,
Inc., DBA Little Eagle Food Market,
3111 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, and requests the Superintendent
of the Division of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 983-16.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3344 East 116th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
89166090005 owned by 3344 E 116, Inc.,

The City Record
DBA Kinsman Supermarket, 3344 East
116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
and requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 984-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of location of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 5611
Woodland Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of an
application for the transfer of location
of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit from
Irving Torres, DBA Tony’s Deli, 2177
West 30th Street, 1st floor front,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 9001820 to Shri Hanuman, Inc.,
DBA
Hometown
Grocery,
5611
Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 81131450005;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets, is
contrary to the best interests of the
entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated
his liquor business in disregard of the
laws, regulations or local ordinances
of this state or any other state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the
building,
safety
or
health
requirements of the governing body of
this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor
Control
are
prevented
reasonable
access
to
the
establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good order;
and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

1254

August 17, 2016
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code. Council’s
objection to said permit must be
received by the Superintendent of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
from Irving Torres, DBA Tony’s Deli,
2177 West 30th Street, 1st floor front,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 9001820 to Shri Hanuman, Inc.,
DBA
Hometown
Grocery,
5611
Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 81131450005;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 988-16.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X
Liquor Permit at 4025 East 131st
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8429701 owned by Speedy Harvard,
LLC, 4025 East 131st Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
and
requests
the

August 17, 2016
Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 989-16.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X
Liquor Permit at 3904 Martin Luther
King Blvd., 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
40342570005
owned
by
Pamela
Hubbard, DBA McClain’s Market II,
3904 Martin Luther King Blvd., 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and
requests the Superintendent of the
Division of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be

The City Record
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Res. No. 990-16.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 4525 Turney Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in
a
manner
that
demonstrates
a
disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and that
this objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of
the Ohio Revised Code, objections to
renewal of liquor permits shall be
made no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3602732 owned by Hargur, Inc., DBA
Turney Deli, 4525 Turney Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code to
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

1255

79
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 440-16.
By Council Members Kazy and
Brady.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 337.231, Portable Storage
Containers,
to
regulate
use
of
portable storage containers to protect
the public safety and aesthetics of
residential neighborhoods in the City;
and amending Section 327.99, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1396-14,
passed December 8, 2014, regarding
penalty.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
experienced an increase in the number of portable storage containers
(also known as “PODS” or “portable
on demand storage”) used by residents for their personal storage needs
or in conjunction with construction
projects; and
Whereas, unfortunately, some containers are placed in the front setback
areas of homes and for several
months or more which has resulted in
complaints from neighbors about public safety and aesthetics in residential neighborhoods; and
Whereas, several cities, including
Shawnee Hills, Ohio, Sacramento, California, and Cutler Bay, Florida, have
regulated the use of portable storage
containers, including their time,
placement, and condition to help
ensure public safety and aesthetics in
residential neighborhoods; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland recognizes the need to regulate the use
of portable storage containers as
accessory uses in order to protect the
public safety of Cleveland’s citizens
and the aesthetics of residential
neighborhoods; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 337.231 as follows:
Section 337.231 Portable Storage
Containers
(a) For purposes of this section, a
“portable storage container” means a
container, unit, shed-like structure, or
other receptacle that is capable of
being moved and is, or can be, used
for the temporary storage of personal
property or building materials of any
kind, and is located on residential
property.
(b) No person shall place a portable
storage container on residential property without first obtaining a permit
issued by the Director of Building and
Housing, and displaying the permit
on the front of the container most visible from the street. The Board of Control shall determine the permit fee
and the Director of Building and
Housing shall determine the permit
application contents.

80
(c) All portable storage containers
and their use on residential premises
shall meet the following requirements:
(1) A portable storage container
may not be located at a residential
property for more than thirty (30)
consecutive days of any calendar
year; and
(2) No more than one portable storage container shall be placed on a residential property at any given time
without the express permission of the
Director of Building and Housing;
and
(3) All portable storage containers
during the term of shall be in good
condition free from rust, peeling
paint and other visible forms of deterioration; and
(4) No portable storage container
shall be placed where it obstructs
traffic vision or on any public sidewalk or street, nor placed within any
required front yard set-back; and a
portable storage container shall be
placed at least ten feet away from any
side-street property line and from any
main building on an adjoining lot;
and
(5) Portable storage containers
may be kept on a property during the
term of a valid building permit issued
by the Director of Building and Housing for construction work on the property, and must be removed within fifteen (15) days of final cessation of
construction or any thirty (30) day
stop of construction; and
(6) No portable storage container
shall exceed twenty (20) feet in
length, ten (10) feet in width, or ten
(10) feet in height.
Section 2. That Section 327.99 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1396-14, passed December 8, 2014 is
amended as follows:
Section 327.99 Penalty
(a) Except as provided in divisions
(c) and (d) below, any person, firm or
corporation who violates any of the
provisions of this Zoning Code or who
fails to comply shall, for each and
every violation or failure, be fined not
less
than
one
hundred
dollars
($100.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not
less than ten (10) days, nor more than
ninety (90) days, or both. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which such violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist under notification thereof.
(b) The imposition of any penalty
under this division shall not be construed as excusing or permitting the
continuance of any violation, and
when the violation constitutes a nuisance, any owner of the premises,
whether the owner at the time the violation was committed or his or her
assignee, shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this Zoning Code each
day he or she permits such nuisance
to continue unabated after due notice
from the Director of Building and
Housing of the existence of such nuisance.
(c) Any person, firm, or corporation
who violates any provision of Section
337.16 of this Zoning Code or who fails
to comply shall, for each and every
violation or failure, be fined not less
than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) which fine shall not
be reduced, waived or suspended. In
addition, imprisonment for not less
than ten (10) days nor more than ninety (90) days may be imposed. A sepa-

The City Record
rate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which such
violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist after notification
thereof.
(d) Whoever violates Sections
337.23, 337.231, 347.02, 347.10, 347.121,
349.02, 349.04, 349.13, 350.19, 357.13 or,
357.14 or Section 347.08 as a first
offense of that section shall be fined
not more than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In addition to any other
method of enforcement provided for
in this chapter, the above listed minor
misdemeanors may be enforced by the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
(e) Whoever violates Section 347.08
as a second offense of that section
shall be fined not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30)
days, or both. Whoever violates Section 347.08 as a third or subsequent
offense of that section shall be fined
not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more
than six (6) months, or both.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 649-16.
By Council Members Conwell, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an amendment and restatement to a Lease Agreement with the
Cleveland Museum of Art to change
certain terms of the lease, including
but not limited to, the term and development issues relating to Case Western Reserve University’s Greenway
Connector Project; and authorizing
the Director to lease certain properties located in Wade Park to the
Cleveland Art Museum and Case
Western Reserve University for the
purpose of implementing the Project,
for a term of ninety-nine years, with
one option to renew, for an additional
ninety-nine years.
Whereas, in 1930, the Cleveland
Museum of Art (“Museum”) entered
into an Agreement with the City of
Cleveland for maintenance and beautification of the Fine Arts Garden
Lagoon by a Fine Arts Garden Commission, also known as Parcel “B”
(the “1930 Agreement”); and
Whereas, in 2004, the Museum
entered into a ninety-nine year Lease
with the City for property located in
Wade Park for the Museum’s maintenance building, also known as Parcel
“A” (the “2004 Lease”); and
Whereas, Case Western Reserve
University (“CWRU”) wishes to
implement its Greenway Connector
Project (the “Project”), that will
unify CWRU’s eastern and western
campus areas and enhance connections to neighborhoods by way of a
paved pedestrian and bicycle path
and greenway originating at East
Boulevard, traversing west around
the Fine Arts Garden Lagoon south of

1256

August 17, 2016
the Cleveland Museum of Art, traversing west across Wade Park, and ending at East 101st Street; and
Whereas, the Project will require a
lease of land between the City and
CWRU for a portion of Wade Park
also known as Parcel “C” (the “CWRU
Lease”), an amendment and restatement to the 2004 Lease for Parcel A to
include Parcel B from the 1930 Agreement, termination of the 1930 Agreement, and coterminous lease terms of
the CWRU Lease and the amended
and restated 2004 Lease; and
Whereas, the amended and restated
2004 Lease shall authorize other
developmental issues needed to
implement the Project, including but
not limited to, allowing the Museum
to mortgage City property, authorizing subleases to CWRU, adding a provision to allow that the amended and
restated 2004 Lease can be further
amended to include the CWRU Lease
parcel C in the event that the CWRU
Lease is terminated early, and to
extend the lease term for the amended
and restated 2004 Lease for a period of
ninety-nine years, with one option to
renew, which will run conterminously
with the CWRU Lease; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works is
authorized to enter into an amendment and restatement of the 2004
Lease with the Museum (the “Amended 2004 Lease”) to change certain
terms of the original 2004 Lease for
parcel “A” and to lease to the Museum
property commonly known as the
Fine Arts Lagoon Garden or Parcel
“B” which are more fully described as
follows:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF
PARCEL A
TO BE LEASED TO THE
CLEVELAND MUSEUM OF ART
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lots Numbers 394
and 402 and further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the northwesterly corner of Parcel B of land conveyed to
The Cleveland Museum of Art by deed
recorded in Volume 12328 Page 601 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence S 08°19'38" E, along a westerly line of said Parcel B, a distance
of 16.62 feet to the principal point of
beginning of the premises herein
intended to be described;
Thence continuing along said westerly line of Parcel B by the following
four (4) courses and distances:
Course No. 1:
Thence S 08°19'38" E, a distance of
75.09 feet to a point;
Course No. 2:
Thence S 17°37'23" E, a distance of
157.03 feet to a point;
Course No. 3:
Thence S 30°10'03" E, a distance of
133.21 feet to a point;
Course No. 4:
Thence S 08°19'38" E, a distance of
227.91 feet to the northwesterly corner

August 17, 2016
of land conveyed to the Cleveland
Museum of Art by deed recorded in
Volume 15651 Page 773 of Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
Thence along the westerly and
southerly lines of land conveyed to
said Cleveland Museum of Art by the
following two (2) courses and distances:
Course No. 5:
Thence S 8°19'38" E, a distance of
76.56 feet to a point;
Course No. 6:
Thence N 81°40'22" E, a distance of
183.15 feet to a point on the westerly
curved line of Parcel A, conveyed to
The Cleveland Museum of Art by deed
recorded in Volume 12328 Page 601 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Course No. 7:
Thence along said westerly curved
line of Parcel A, along the arc of a
curve deflecting to the left, 20.79 feet,
said curve having a radius of 305.00
feet, a delta angle of 3°54'17" and a
chord which bears S 14°15'33" E, a
distance of 20.78 feet to a point of tangency;
Course No. 8:
Thence S 16°12'35" E, continuing
along the westerly line of said Parcel
A, a distance of 106.77 feet to a point;
Course No. 9:
Thence S 20°41'03" W, a distance of
353.79 feet to a point on the existing
back of curb (easterly side) of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive;
Thence along said existing back of
curb (easterly side) of Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive by the following ten
(10) courses and distances:
Course No. 10:
Thence N 67°27'00" W, a distance of
60.57 feet to a point;
Course No. 11:
Thence N 62°34'19" W, a distance of
37.93 feet to a point of curve;
Course No. 12:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, 542.15 feet,
said curve having a radius of 731.12
feet, a delta angle of 42°29'11" and a
chord which bears N 41°19'44" W, a
distance of 529.81 feet to a point of
tangency;
Course No. 13:
Thence N 20°05'08" W, a distance of
77.21 feet to a point;
Course No. 14:
Thence N 8°01'06" W, a distance of
82.05 feet to a point of curvature;
Course No. 15:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, 129.83 feet,
said curve having a radius of 718.50
feet, a delta angle of 10°21'11" and a
chord which bears N 2°50'30" W, a distance of 129.65 feet to a point of tangency;
Course No. 16:
Thence N 2°20'05" E, a distance of
41.00 feet to a point of curvature;
Course No. 17:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, 200.24 feet,
said curve having a radius of 580.00
feet, a delta angle of 19°46'52" and a
chord which bears N 12°13'31" E, a

The City Record
distance of 199.25 feet to a point of
tangency;
Course No. 18:
Thence N 22°06'57" E, a distance of
27.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 19:
Thence N 23°52'52" E, a distance of
160.31 feet to a point on the existing
back of walk on Jeptha Drive;
Thence along the existing back of
walk on said Jeptha Drive by the following two (2) courses and distances:
Course No. 20:
Thence S 64°22'52" E, a distance of
60.14 feet to a point of curvature;
Course No. 21:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, 61.73 feet, said
curve having a radius of 181.00 feet, a
delta angle of 19°32'25" and a chord
which bears S 54°36'39" E, a distance
of 61.43 feet to feet to the principal
point of beginning and containing
7.9663 acres of land as calculated and
described by Christopher L. Courtney,
Registered Surveyor Number 7702 of
Garrett & Associates, Inc., in May,
2016, be the same or less, but subjected to all legal highways.
All iron pins are 5/8" rebar with
plastic cap marked “Garrett & Assoc
6640 / 7702”.
Bearings used herein are based on
assumed meridian and are used to
indicate angles only.
Note: The intent for the establishment of the lease line along Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive is to follow the
existing back of curb and for Jeptha
Drive to follow the existing back of
walk.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF
PARCEL B
TO BE LEASED TO THE
CLEVELAND MUSUEM OF ART
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot Number 402 and
further bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a stone with a nail
found on a base line between two
monuments in the easterly line of
East Boulevard, said stone with nail
being approximately 95.00 feet south
of the centerline of Bellflower Road;
Thence S 05°47'18" E, along said
base line, a distance of 33.20 feet to a
point;
Thence S 81°40'22" W, a distance of
71.12 feet to the northeasterly corner
of Parcel “A” conveyed to The Cleveland Museum of Art by deed recorded
in Volume 12328 Page 601 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence along the easterly line and
southerly lines of said Parcel “A” by
the following three (3) courses and
distances:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 52.98 feet, said
curve having a radius of 1831.00 feet,
a delta angle of 01°39'28" and a chord
which bears S 01°59'08" E, a distance
of 52.98 feet to a point;
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 19.27 feet, said
curve having a radius of 11.56 feet, a
delta angle of 95°30'34" and a chord
which bears N 50°34'21" W, a distance
of 17.12 feet to a point;
Thence S 81°40'22" W, a distance of
4.95 feet to the principal point of
beginning of the premises herein
intended to be described;

1257

81
Thence along the existing back of
walk of East Boulevard by the following eight (8) courses and distances:
Course No. 1:
Thence S 04°10'26" E, a distance of
82.50 feet to a point;
Course No. 2:
Thence S 05°22'46" E, a distance of
102.74 feet to a point;
Course No. 3:
Thence S 07°08'57" E, a distance of
51.60 feet to a point of curve;
Course No. 4:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 119.67 feet, said
curve having a radius of 416.60 feet, a
delta angle of 16°27'30" and a chord
of S 15°22'42" E, a distance of 119.26
feet to a point of tangency;
Course No. 5:
Thence S 23°36'27" E, a distance of
101.59 feet to a point of curve;
Course No. 6:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, 373.30 feet,
said curve having a radius of 800.00
feet, a delta angle of 26°44'09" and a
chord of S 10°14'22" E, a distance of
369.93 feet to a point of tangency;
Course No. 7:
Thence S 03°07'42" W, a distance of
96.63 feet to a point;
Course No. 8:
Thence S 05°55'25" W, a distance of
96.84 feet to a point which is 74.00 feet
by rectangular measurement from the
centerline of Euclid Avenue;
Course No. 9:
Thence S 42°54'01" W, parallel to
and 74.00 feet by rectangular measurement from said centerline of
Euclid Avenue, a distance of 209.01
feet to a point;
Course No. 10:
Thence S 81°45'52" W, a distance of
67.54 feet to a point on the easterly
line of Chester Ave. N.E. (86 feet
wide) as shown by the Dedication
Plat of Chester Ave. recorded in Volume 127 Page 13 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Course No. 11:
Thence N 58°05'15" W, along said
easterly line of Chester Ave., (passing through at 252.02 feet, the point of
curve in said easterly line of Chester
Avenue) a total distance of 285.23 feet
to a point of curved turnout for Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive;
Course No. 12:
Thence along the arc of said curved
turnout deflecting to the right, 40.37
feet, said curved turnout having a
radius of 32.11 feet, a delta angle of
72°02'06" and a chord which bears N
22°04'12" W, a distance of 37.76 feet to
a point of reverse curve;
Course No. 13:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 341.89 feet, said
curve having a radius of 1012.09 feet,
a delta angle of 19°21'17" and a chord
which bears N 04°16'13" E, a distance
of 340.26 feet to a point of compound
curve;
Course No. 14:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 150.56 feet, said

82
curve having a radius of 428.09 feet, a
delta angle of 20°09'04" and a chord
which bears N 15°28'58" W, a distance
of 149.79 feet to a point of tangency;
Course No. 15:
Thence N 25°33'30" W, a distance of
93.48 feet to a point;
Course No. 16:
Thence N 45°37'43" W, a distance of
55.18 feet to a point of curve;
Course No. 17:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 140.26 feet, said
curve having a radius of 423.55 feet, a
delta angle of 18°58'27" and a chord
which bears N 55°06'58" W, a distance
of 139.62 feet to a point;
Course No. 18:
Thence S 22°58'12" W, a distance of
22.51 feet to a point on the existing
back of curb of said Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive;
Thence following said existing
back of curb of said Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive by the following two
(2) courses and distances:
Course No. 19:
Thence N 61°14'57" W, a distance of
17.68 feet to a point;
Course No. 20:
Thence N 67°27'00" W, a distance of
46.23 feet to a point;
Course No. 21:
Thence N 20°41'03" E, a distance of
353.79 feet to a point on the westerly
line of Parcel A, conveyed to The
Cleveland Museum of Art by deed
recorded in Volume 12328 Page 601 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence along the westerly and
southerly line of said Parcel A by the
following three (3) courses and distances:
Course No. 22:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, 62.65 feet, said
curve having a radius of 241.75 feet, a
delta angle of 14°50'54" and a chord
which bears S 08°47'08" E, a distance
of 62.47 feet to a point of reverse
curve;
Course No. 23:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 76.34 feet, said
curve having a radius of 45.11 feet, a
delta angle of 96°57'44" and a chord
which bears S 49°50'33" E, a distance
of 67.55 feet to a point;
Course No. 24:
Thence N 81°40'22" E, a distance of
414.73 feet to the principal point of
beginning and containing 11.8788
acres of land as calculated and
described by Christopher L. Courtney,
Registered Surveyor Number 7702 of
Garrett & Associates, Inc., in May,
2016, be the same or less, but subjected to all legal highways.
All iron pins are 5/8" rebar with
plastic cap marked “Garrett & Assoc
6640 / 7702”.
Bearings used herein are based on
assumed meridian and are used to
indicate angles only.
Note: The intent for the establishment of the lease line along East
Boulevard, Euclid Avenue, Chester
Avenue and Martin Luther King Jr.
Drives to follow the existing back of
walk.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Amended 2004
Lease shall include, but not be limited
to, adding Parcel B from the 1930
Agreement, terminating the 1930
Agreement when the Amended 2004
Lease is executed, allowing the Museum to mortgage City property with
prior City approval, and adding a provision that in the event that the
CWRU Lease is terminated that the
City can further amend the Amended
2004 Lease to include Parcel C subject
to the Amended 2004 Lease terms.
Section 3. That the Amended 2004
Lease parcels A and B shall be leased
at a rental of $1.00 per year, and other
valuable consideration, which are
determined to be fair market value,
exclusive of utilities, for a term of
ninety-nine years, with one option to
renew for an additional ninety-nine
years, exercisable by the Director of
Public Works, and shall run conterminously with the CWRU Lease authorized in this ordinance.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works is
authorized to lease to CWRU certain
property known as Parcel “C”, (the
“CWRU Lease”) which is more fully
described as follows:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF
PARCEL C
TO BE LEASED TO
THE CASE WESTERN
RESERVE UNIVERSITY
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot Numbers 394
and 402 and further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at a stone monument
found in the centerline of East 105th
Street (60 feet wide) at the northerly
line of Park lane N.E. (Perpetual 30
foot right of Way) recorded in Volume 515 Page 378 of Cuyahoga county
Deed Records;
Thence N 01°06'01" W, along said
centerline of East 105th Street, a distance of 38.17 feet to a point;
Thence N 88°53'59" E, a distance of
34.50 feet to the principal point of
beginning of the premises herein
intended to be described;
Course No. 1:
Thence N 01°06'01" W, a distance of
16.50 feet to a point;
Course No. 2:
Thence S 88°53'59" W, a distance of
4.50 feet to a point on the easterly line
of said East 105th Street;
Course No. 3:
Thence N 01°06'01" W, along said
easterly line of East 105th Street, a
distance of 798.86 feet to a point;
Course No. 4:
Thence N 28°53'59" E, a distance of
17.87 feet to a point;
Course No. 5:
Thence N 01°36'56" E, a distance of
138.53 feet to a point;
Course No. 6:
Thence N 01°06'01" W, a distance of
625.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 7:
Thence N 88°53'59" E, a distance of
5.00 feet to a point;

1258

August 17, 2016
Course No. 8:
Thence N 01°06'01" W, a distance of
50.24 feet to a point;
Course No. 9:
Thence S 80°39'21" E, a distance of
28.88 feet to a point of curve;
Course No. 10:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, 441.31 feet,
said curve having a radius of 262.45
feet, a delta angle of 96°20'44" and a
chord of S 32°28'59" E, a distance of
391.13 feet to a point of tangency;
Course No. 11:
Thence S 15°41'23" W, a distance of
33.65 feet to a point;
Course No. 12:
Thence S 19°46'33" W, a distance of
50.98 feet to a point;
Course No. 13:
Thence S 26°06'43" W, a distance of
85.36 feet to a point;
Course No. 14:
Thence S 22°06'57" W, a distance of
70.00 feet to a point of curve;
Course No. 15:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 215.43 feet, said
curve having a radius of 624.00 feet, a
delta angle of 19°46'52" and a chord
of S 12°13'31" W, a distance of 214.37
feet to a point of tangency;
Course No. 16:
Thence S 02°20'05" W, a distance of
41.00 feet to a point of curve;
Course No. 17:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 137.78 feet, said
curve having a radius of 762.50 feet, a
delta angle of 10°21'11" and a chord
of S 02°50'30" E, a distance of 137.59
feet to a point of tangency;
Course No. 18:
Thence S 08°01'06" E, a distance of
86.70 feet to a point;
Course No. 19:
Thence S 20°05'08" E, a distance of
81.86 feet to a point of curve;
Course No. 20:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 320.30 feet, said
curve having a radius of 775.12 feet, a
delta angle of 23°40'33" and a chord
of S 31°55'25" E, a distance of 318.02
feet to a point;
Course No. 21:
Thence S 43°51'17" W, a distance of
134.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 22:
Thence S 46°08'43" E, a distance of
57.28 feet to a point;
Course No. 23:
Thence N 43°51'17" E, a distance of
4.94 feet to a point on the northwesterly projection of the existing outside
wall of the Chinese Cultural Garden;
Course No. 24:
Thence S 46°08'43" E, along said
northwesterly projection of the existing outside wall of the Chinese Cultural Garden and the existing outside
wall of the Chinese Cultural Garden,
a distance of 15.00 feet to the southwesterly corner thereof;

August 17, 2016
Course No. 25:
Thence N 43°51'17" E, along the
southerly outside wall of said Chinese
Cultural Garden, a distance of 19.70
feet to a point;
Course No. 26:
Thence S 46°08'43" E, a distance of
4.99 feet to a point;
Course No. 27:
Thence N 43°51'17" E, a distance of
110.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 28:
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 177.26 feet, said
curve having a radius of 775.12 feet, a
delta angle of 13°06'11" and a chord
of S 56°01'38" E, a distance of 176.88
feet to a point;
Course No. 29:
Thence S 27°46'04" W, a distance of
15.64 feet to a point;
Course No. 30:
Thence S 62°34'19" E, a distance of
20.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 31:
Thence S 67°27'15" E, a distance of
63.49 feet to a point;
Course No. 32:
Thence S 00°35'45" E, a distance of
54.25 feet to a point;
Course No. 33:
Thence S 88°36'54" W, a distance of
573.52 feet to the principal point of
beginning and containing 7.8579
acres of land as calculated and
described by Christopher L. Courtney,
Registered Surveyor Number 7702 of
Garrett & Associates, Inc., in May,
2016, be the same or less, but subjected to all legal highways.
All iron pins are 5/8" rebar with
plastic cap marked “Garrett & Assoc
6640 / 7702”.
Bearings used herein are based on
assumed meridian and are used to
indicate angles only.
Note: The intent for the establishment of the lease line along Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive to follow the
existing back of curb or back of walk.
Section 5. That the CWRU Lease
shall include, but not be limited to,
authorize CWRU to make improvements to the leased premises subject
to the approval of appropriate City
agencies and officials and allowing
the Museum to mortgage City property with prior City approval.
Section 6. That the CWRU Lease
Parcel C shall be leased at a rental of
$1.00 per year, and other valuable consideration, which is determined to be
fair market value, exclusive of utilities, for a term of ninety-nine years,
with one option to renew for an additional ninety-nine years, exercisable
by the Director of Public Works, and
shall run conterminously with the
Amended 2004 Lease authorized in
this ordinance.
Section 7. That the Amended 2004
Lease and the CWRU Lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Works, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the Amended
2004 Lease or CWRU Lease authorized by this ordinance.

The City Record
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 665-16.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 630.01 and 630.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.14109, passed March 30, 2009, relating to
criminal activity nuisances.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 630.01 and
630.02 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No.141.09, passed March 30,
2009, are amended to read as follows:
Section 630.01 Criminal Activity
Nuisances Declared
(a) Activities, as defined in any of
the following Codified Ordinances,
occurring on properties in the City,
and engaged in by an owner, occupant or invitee of the owner or occupant of the property, are declared to
be nuisance activities. To be a nuisance activity, a criminal conviction
is not necessary. There must be probable cause to believe that the activity
occurred.
(1) Any animal violation under Sections 603.01 (Animals or Fowl at
Large), 603.02 (Unmuzzled Dogs at
Large), 603.04 (Dog Nuisances),
603.07 (Killing or Injuring Animals),
603.072 (Illegal Fights between Animals), 603.08 (Poisoning Animals),
603.09 (Cruelty to Animals), 603.091
(Neglect of Animals), 603.11 (Large
Cats), 603A.03 (Keeping an Exotic
Animal Without a Permit), 603A.08
(Care and Treatment of Exotic Animal Held Under Permit), 603A.14
(Facilities
Housing
Reptiles),
603A.17 (Snakes in Multi-Family Residences Prohibited), 604.03 (Control
of Vicious and Dangerous Dogs) of
the Codified Ordinances;
(2) Any disorderly conduct or disorderly activity violation under Sections 605.01 (Riot), 605.02 (Failure to
Disperse), 605.03 (Disorderly Conduct; Intoxication), 605.05 (Misconduct at an Emergency), 605.06 (Inducing Panic), 605.07 (Making False
Alarms), 605.071 (Improper Use of 9-11 Telephone System), 605.10 (Unnecessary Noise), 605.14 (Minor’s Curfew) of the Codified Ordinances;
(3) Any drug abuse violation under
Chapter 607 of the Codified Ordinances;
(4) Any family offense violation
under Sections 609.04 (Endangering
Children), 609.10 (Contributing to
Unruliness or Delinquency of a Child)
of the Codified Ordinances;
(5) Any gambling violation under
Chapter 611 of the Codified Ordinances;
(6) Any littering violation under
Chapter 613 of the Codified Ordinances;

1259

83
(7) Any liquor control violation
under Sections 617.02 (Sales to and
Use by Minors; Securing Public
Accommodations), 617.021 (Purchase,
Consumption or Possession by Minor;
Misrepresentation), 617.03 (Sales to
Intoxicated Persons), 617.05 (Permit
Required), 617.06 (Printed Warnings
to be Posted), 617.08 (Hours of Sale or
Consumption), 617.09 (Bottle Clubs)
of the Codified Ordinances;
(8) Any obscenity and sex offenses
violation under Sections 619.03 (Corruption of a Minor), 619.04 (Sexual
Imposition), 619.05 (Importuning),
619.08 (Procuring), 619.09 (Soliciting), 619.10 (Prostitution), 619.12
(Disseminating Material Harmful to
Juveniles), 619.14 (Possession of
Obscene Material Involving Minor),
619.15 (Possession of Sexually-Oriented Material Involving Minor), 619.16
(Possession of Nudity-Oriented Material Involving Minor), 619.161 (Displaying Matter Harmful to Juveniles), 619.17 (Prohibited Conduct) of
the Codified Ordinances;
(9) Any offense against another
person
under
Sections
621.03
(Assault), 621.031 (Assault by a
Minor; Parental Duty Imposed),
621.04 (Negligent Assault), 621.06
(Aggravated Menacing), 621.07 (Menacing), 621.08 (Unlawful Restraint),
621.09 (Coercion), 621.10 (Telephone
Harassment), 621.11 (Threatening or
Harassing Phone Calls), 621.14 (Hazing) of the Codified Ordinances;
(10) Any offense against property
under Sections 623.02 (Criminal Damaging or Endangering, 623.03 (Criminal Mischief) of the Codified Ordinances;
(11) Any theft violation under Sections 625.05 (Petty Theft), 625.08
(Criminal Tools), 625.10 (Unauthorized Use of Property), 625.21 (Receiving Stolen Property), 625.27 (Trafficking In or Illegal Use of “WIC”
Coupons) of the Codified Ordinances;
(12) Any weapons and explosives
violation under Sections 627.04 (Using
Weapons While Intoxicated), 627.05
(Unlawful
Transactions
in
Weapons), 627.06 (Failure to Secure
Dangerous
Ordnance),
627.07
(Improperly Providing Access to
Firearm by Minor), 627.09 (Discharging Firearms), 627.12 (Seizure and
Confiscation of Deadly Weapon);
627.16 (Prohibition Against Transferring Firearms or Dangerous Ordnance to a Felon or Intoxicated Person); 627.21 (Sale of Long Bladed
Pocket Knives), 627.22 (Sale or Possession of Sling Shots and Pea Shooters), 627.23 (Unlawful Display of
Weapons), 627.24 (Possession or Use
of Stench Bombs), 627.25 (Tear Gas
Guns), 627.26 (Containers of Combustibles), 627.27 (Jump Traps),
627.19 (Facsimile Firearms) of the
Codified Ordinances;
(13) Any sound devices violation
under Section 683.01 (Playing of
Sound Devices Prohibited) of the Codified Ordinances;
(14) Any massage establishment
violation under Chapter 683A of the
Codified Ordinances;
(15) Any explosives violation under
Chapter 387 of the Codified Ordinances;
(16) Any open burning violation
under Section 277.09 of the Codified
Ordinances.
(b) When three (3) or more nuisance activities as defined in division
(a) occur on separate occasions on
the same property within any twelve
(12) month period, the Director of

84
Public Safety, or his or her designee,
may declare the premises to be a nuisance property and may abate the nuisance as provided in Section 630.02.”.
Section 630.02  Action to Abate Nuisances; Costs of Enforcement
(a) Notice of Declaration of Nuisance. The Director of Public Safety
or his or her designee, upon finding
that three (3) or more nuisance activities as defined in Section 630.01 have
occurred on separate occasions within any twelve (12) month period on
the same property, may cause a written notice and order to be served on
the owner of the property declaring
that the property is a nuisance property. This notice and order shall identify the nuisance activities, and the
estimated costs to abate any future
nuisance activity; shall state that the
owner may avoid being charged the
costs of abatement by taking steps to
prevent any further nuisance activity
as set forth in division (d) of this section; and shall state the appeal
process. The notice shall further state
that if a fourth or subsequent nuisance activity as defined in Section 630.01 occurs later than thirteen
(13) days after the date of the written
nuisance declaration notice and within twelve (12) months of the date of
the third or any subsequent nuisance
activity, the City may abate the nuisance by responding to the activities
using
administrative
and
law
enforcement actions, and the costs of
the abatement shall be charged to the
owner of the nuisance property and
may be certified as a lien on the nuisance property. Notice shall be
deemed properly delivered by delivering it personally to the owner or leaving it at the owner’s usual place of
business or residence, or by mailing it
to the owner, or, if it cannot be served
in any of the other ways mentioned
above, by publishing it once in a
newspaper of general circulation
within the City, or by posting it in a
conspicuous place on the real estate
involved.
(b) Abatement.  If the Director of
Public Safety or his or her designee
determines that a fourth or subsequent nuisance activity as defined in
Section 630.01 occurs later than thirteen (13) days after the date of the
initial written nuisance declaration
notice and within twelve (12) months
after the date of the third or any subsequent nuisance activity, the City
may abate the nuisance activity by
using
administrative
and
law
enforcement actions, and the costs of
the abatement shall be charged to the
owner of the property and, if not paid,
may be certified by the Commissioner
of Assessments and Licenses to the
County Auditor to be placed on the
nuisance property as a lien to be collected as other taxes and returned to
the City. The cost to abate the nuisance activity shall be calculated as
set forth in division (c). The City
shall provide notice to the owner of
the nuisance property of the City’s
decision to charge the cost of abatement. If the costs are not paid by the
owner, the City shall notify the owner
at least thirty (30) days before the
costs are certified to the County Auditor. The notice shall contain a street
address or legal description of the
property, a description of the nuisance activities and the cost to abate.
Notices shall be served as set forth in
division (a) of this section. The Director of Law may take any other action

The City Record
necessary to collect the costs of abatement.
(c) Costs of Abatement.  Costs of
abatement shall be determined based
on the time required to respond to the
nuisance activity multiplied by an
hourly rate based upon the wages and
benefits of a police officer, dispatch
costs, vehicle and equipment costs,
and supervisory and administrative
costs. The hourly rate may be adjusted based on the number of police officers required to abate the nuisance.
(d) Nuisance Abatement Plan. The
owner of a nuisance property may
avoid being charged the cost of abating future nuisances if the owner
meets with the Director of Public
Safety or his or her designee; presents
a plan to prevent further nuisance
activity and that plan is approved by
the Director of Public Safety or his or
her designee; and implements the
plan.
(e) Appeal.  The owner of a nuisance property who receives a notice
declaring the owner’s property to be a
nuisance property, a notice charging
the cost of abating nuisance activity,
or a notice that the cost of abatement
shall be certified to the County Auditor, may appeal the notice by submitting a written request to the City official who issued the notice within ten
(10) days of the date of the notice. If,
after a decision on that appeal, the
owner disagrees with the decision,
the owner may appeal the decision of
the City official to the Board of Zoning Appeals. An appeal to the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall be made
within fifteen (15) days of the postmark date of the decision from the
City official denying the appeal. The
Board shall conduct a hearing and
render a decision in accordance with
City ordinances and regulations governing its conduct and procedure. An
appeal to the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall not stay any actions by
the City to abate any subsequent nuisance activity. In an appeal to the
Board of Zoning Appeals of a nuisance declaration notice, the City
must show by a preponderance of the
evidence that there was probable
cause to believe that each nuisance
activity stated in the notice being
appealed has occurred, and that the
declaration of the property as a nuisance property is justified. In an
appeal to the Board of Zoning
Appeals of a notice charging the cost
of abating nuisance activity, or a
notice that the cost of abatement
shall be certified to the County Auditor, the City must show by a preponderance of the evidence that the
charging of abatement costs or the
certification of abatement costs is
justified. The owner may prevail on
appeal of any notice if the owner
demonstrates by a preponderance of
the evidence that:
(1) He or she was not the owner at
the time of any of the nuisance activity that is the basis of the notice; or
(2) He or she had knowledge of the
nuisance activity, but promptly and
vigorously took all actions necessary
to abate the nuisance activity including, without limitation, compliance
with the requirements of division (C)
of RC 5321.17 and division (A)(9) of
RC 5321.04; or
(3) He or she had no knowledge of
the nuisance activity and could not,
with reasonable care and diligence,
have known of the nuisance activity;
and upon receipt of the notice of the

1260

August 17, 2016
declaration of the property as a nuisance property, he or she promptly
took all actions necessary to abate
the nuisance including, without limitation, compliance with the requirements of division (C) of RC 5321.17
and division (A)(9) of RC 5321.04.
Section 2. That existing Sections
630.01 and 630.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No.141.09,
passed March 30, 2009, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 700-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of rehabilitating the
storm and sanitary sewer systems in
and around the IX Center and discharge centers, and constructing
infrastructure improvements needed
for the rehabilitation; and authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating
the storm and sanitary sewer systems
in and around the IX Center and discharge centers, and constructing
infrastructure improvements needed
for the rehabilitation, for the Department of Port Control, by one or more
contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts for the making of
the public improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to apply and pay
for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 106, 60
SF 126, 60 SF 141, passenger facility
charges if authorized, and from the
fund or subfunds to which are credited the proceeds of any grant received

August 17, 2016
for this project, Request No. RQS 3001,
RL 2016-64.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 718-16.
By Council Members McCormack,
Keane and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease Docks 28B, 30, and 32, excluding
the warehouses on Docks 30 and 32, to
the Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC for surface parking and
staging special event programming
for ten Cleveland Browns home
games, any NFL playoff games and
up to nine other events a year, for a
period of one year.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns Docks 28B, 30, and 32, which,
excluding the warehouses on Docks
30 and 32, are no longer needed for the
City’s public use: and
Whereas, the Cleveland Browns
Stadium Company LLC (“Browns”)
has proposed to lease Docks 28B, 30,
and 32, excluding the warehouses on
Docks 30 and 32, for surface parking
and staging special event programming for ten Cleveland Browns home
games, any NFL playoff games and
up to nine other events a year; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Port Control is
authorized to lease to the Browns,
Docks 28B, 30, and 32, excluding the
warehouses on Docks 30 and 32
(“Leased
Premises”)
comprising
approximately 1,700 parking spaces
for surface parking and staging special event programming for ten Cleveland Browns home games, any NFL
playoff games and up to nine other
events a year. The City will retain one
or more ingress and egress easements
over the Leased Premises for the purpose of accessing the warehouses on
Docks 30 and 32.
Section 2. That the term of the lease
and easements shall be for a period of
one year.
Section 3. That the rent for the
Leased Premises shall be set by the
Board of Control.
Section 4. That the lease may authorize the Browns to make improvements to the Leased Premises subject
to the approval of appropriate City
agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall contain a provision to allow the City to
terminate for development purposes
upon notice to the Browns.
Section 6. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.

The City Record
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 792-16.
By Council Member Polensek
An emergency ordinance to add
the name David D. Dawson, Sr. Way
as a secondary and honorary name
to Thames Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name David D. Dawson, Sr.
Way is added as a secondary and
honorary name to Thames Avenue.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 793-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to add
the
name
George
and
Janet
Voinovich Way as a secondary and
honorary name to Schenely Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name George and Janet
Voinovich Way is added as a secondary and honorary name to Schenely Avenue.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 794-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance designating Griswold Avenue between
Kinsman Avenue and East 61st

1261

85
Street with a secondary and honorary designation of “C. D. Gant
Way”.
Whereas, Pastor C. D. Gant has
been the pastor of the Second Mount
Carmel Baptist Church on Kinsman
Road for forty-eight years; and,
Whereas, Pastor Gant has given
back to the community by establishing food and clothing programs,
youth activities, and senior programs; and,
Whereas, the citizens of Cleveland
want to honor C. D. Gant with a
street sign designation of “C. D.
Gant Way”; and,
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Griswold Avenue
between Kinsman Avenue and East
61st Street is designated with a secondary and honorary designation of
“C. D. Gant Way”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 795-16.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance designating Central Avenue from East
68th Street to East 85th Street with
a secondary and honorary designation of “Stanley Jackson, Sr. Way”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Central Avenue
from East 68th Street to East 85th
Street is designated with a secondary and honorary designation of
“Stanley Jackson, Sr. Way”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 796-16.
By Council Members Zone and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
accept a grant from the United
States Department of Justice for the
FY 2014 COPS Hiring Program.

86
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to accept
a grant from the United States
Department of Justice in the approximate amount of $1,875,000 and other
funds that become available during
the grant term, to conduct the FY
2014 COPS Hiring Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the application contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 796-16-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public
Safety
is
authorized
to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 797-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from the Supreme Court of
Ohio for the Court Technology Project; and authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with Justice A/V Solutions, Inc. and
other consultants for professional
services necessary to implement the
grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $109,548, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Supreme Court of Ohio to
conduct the Court Technology Project (the “Project”); that the Director is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under the
grant; and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes described in
the summary for the grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 797-16-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully

The City Record
rewritten, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Justice A/V Solutions, Inc. for
professional services necessary to
design, integrate, and install hardware and software necessary to
implement the Project, and to provide the necessary hardware and
software to implement.
Section 4. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the Cleveland
Municipal Court in order to provide
related professional services and to
enter into agreements necessary to
implement the Project.
The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Finance, on behalf of the
Cleveland Municipal Court, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 798-16.
By Council Members McCormack,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the report of the Assessment
Equalization Board on objections
concerning estimated assessments
with respect to the continuation and
expansion of the Ohio City - Cleveland Business Improvement District
and the comprehensive services plan
for safety, maintenance and other
services to be provided for the District; determining to proceed with
the plan to provide public services
within the District; adopting the
assessments; levying the assessments; and authorizing the City to
enter into an agreement with the
Ohio City Improvement Corporation.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
584-16, adopted June 6, 2016, the
Assessment Equalization Board (the
“Board”) was appointed to hear and
determine all objections concerning
the estimated assessments under
Resolution No. 467-16, adopted May
2, 2016, to provide for public services
benefitting the Ohio City - Cleveland
Business Improvement District (the
“District”); and
Whereas, the Board has filed its
report with this Council as to its
determination of the objections; and

1262

August 17, 2016
Whereas, this Council deems the
report proper in all respects; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the report of the
Board, appointed under Resolution
No. 584-16, adopted June 6, 2016, is
approved and placed in File No. 79816-A, along with the final assessments for the District, as equalized
by the Board.
Section 2. That it is determined to
proceed to provide for the plan for
public services benefitting the District
(collectively,
“District
Services”), as established in Resolution
No. 467-16 (the “Resolution of Necessity”).
Section 3. That the District Services shall be performed under the
provisions of the Resolution of
Necessity, and consistent with the
plans, specifications, profiles, and
assessments approved and filed in
the office of the Clerk of Council.
Section 4. That judicial inquiry
into all claims for damages resulting from the District Services filed
under law shall occur after completion of the District Services.
Section 5. That the cost of the District Services to be assessed against
benefited property shall be assessed
in the amount, manner and number
of installments as provided for in
the Resolution of Necessity, as
equalized by the Board.
Section 6. That the final assessments, as equalized by the Board,
for the cost of the District Services,
placed in the file mentioned above
and
aggregating
$741,354.49
are
adopted and confirmed as final
assessments.
Section 7. That the final assessments shall be assessed and levied
on the lots and lands benefited and
to be charged therewith in the District in proportion to the benefits as
described in the Resolution of Necessity.
Section 8. That it is determined
that the assessments do not exceed
the special benefits resulting from
the District Services, and do not
exceed any statutory limitation.
Section 9. That the Clerk of Council is directed to continue to file in
her office a list of the assessments
and the description of the lots and
lands.
Section
10.
That
the
annual
installments against each lot and
parcel of land shall be certified by
the Clerk of Council to the County
Auditor on or before the certification deadline in each of years 2016,
2017, and 2018, to be placed on the
tax duplicate and collected the same
as other taxes in each of the immediately following years, as provided
by law.
Section 11. That the Clerk of Council is directed to deliver a certified
copy of this ordinance to the County Auditor within fifteen (15) days
after the passage of this ordinance,
or as otherwise required by Section
319.61 of the Revised Code.
Section 12. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to cause notice of the levy
of the assessments to be filed with the
County Auditor within twenty (20)
days following the passage of this

August 17, 2016
ordinance, or as otherwise required by
Section 319.61 of the Revised Code.
Section 13. That the Clerk of Council is directed to cause a notice of
the passage of this ordinance to be
published once in a newspaper of
general circulation in this City.
Section 14. That it is found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the adoption of this ordinance
were conducted in an open meeting
of this Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and any of
its committees that resulted in such
formal action, were conducted in
meetings open to the public, in compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 15. That the Directors of
City Planning and Finance are
authorized to enter into a contract
with the Ohio City Improvement Corporation setting forth the terms
under which the City will levy an
assessment for the District and the
use of the proceeds of the assessments levied herein.
Section 16. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 799-16.
By
Council
Members
Mitchell,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
HUD 108 Empowerment Zone loan
from the United States Department
of Housing and Urban Development
to partially finance the development
of an office building located at
10500 Cedar Avenue and other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the properties; and authorizing the
Director of Economic Development
to enter into one or more agreements with Hemingway Development LLC, or its designee, for the
project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a HUD
108 Empowerment Zone loan in an
amount up to $4,900,000, from the
United States Department of Housing
and
Urban
Development
(”HUD”), to partially finance the
development of an office building
located at 10500 Cedar Avenue (the
“Project”).
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a loan agreement
with Hemingway Development LLC,
or its designee, and any necessary
related agreements, to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the Project, and
for other associated costs necessary
to redevelop the property.

The City Record
Section 3. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 799-16-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation, and are
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 4. That the costs of the
contract shall not exceed $4,900,000
and shall be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited the loan
proceeds received from HUD under
this ordinance, which funds are
appropriated for this purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept such collateral as set
forth in the file referenced above in
order to secure repayment of the
loan. Any loan agreement, security
instrument, or other document shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies into a fund designated by
the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations.
The
fees
shall
be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 8. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 9. That the contract authorized in this legislation will require
the recipient of financial assistance
to work with, and/or cause their
Tenants to work with, The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and
solicit qualified candidates for job
opportunities related to the City’s
contracts, and place special emphasis on the hard to employ, including
but not limited to the disabled and
persons who have been convicted of
or have pled guilty to a criminal
offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate
to the duties for the particular job
sought.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 800-16.
By
Council
Members
Mitchell,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Hemingway
Development LLC, or its designee, to

1263

87
provide for tax abatement for certain real property improvements as
an incentive for the development of
an office building located at 10500
Cedar Avenue in the Cleveland Area
Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, by letter dated July 6,
2016, the City provided the Cleveland Metropolitan School District
(“CMSD”) with a notice of proposed
tax exemptions required by the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area, which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1568-14, passed December 8, 2014,
this Council changed the maximum
term of tax abatements from ten to
fifteen years, as now allowed under
Ohio law; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains
the
characteristics
described in division (A) of Section
5709.61 of the Revised Code and certified the area as an “Urban Jobs
and Enterprise Zone” under Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code; and
Whereas,
Hemingway
Development LLC, or its designee (the
“Enterprise”) has proposed to develop an office building located at
10500 Cedar Avenue, comprising Permanent Parcel Nos. 121-20-001, 121-20002, 121-20-003, 121-20-004, 121-20-005,
121-20-006, 121-20-059, 121-20-058, 12120-057, 121-20-00156, and 121-20-064, in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone;
and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that it would be
at a competitive disadvantage operating at this location if taxes on certain real property improvements
were not abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property, and welfare and that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, and the
assistance is immediately necessary
or jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a 10-year, sixty percent (60%) tax abatement for certain real property improvements
commencing the first year for which
the
real
property
improvements

88
would first be taxable were that
property not exempted from taxation; the abatement shall be subject
to annual review of the Tax Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 800-16-A.
These terms shall not be amended,
nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
listed in Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305.
Section 5. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section
6.
That
any
contract
authorized by this legislation must
require the recipient of financial
assistance to work with, and/or
cause their Tenants to work with,
The Workforce Investment Board
for Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates
for job opportunities related to the
City’s contracts. The identification
process shall place special emphasis
on the hard to employ, including
people who are disabled and people
who have been convicted of or who
have pled guilty to a criminal
offense which is unrelated to the
duties of the job opportunity.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 802-16.
By Council Members Brady, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
the Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization, or its
designee, to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially
finance the project costs needed for
the redevelopment of the Variety
Theatre Complex located at 1180111850 Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter a loan agreement

The City Record
under the Vacant Property Initiative
(“VPI”) with the Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization, or its designee, to provide a
$250,000 VPI loan with up to $180,000
being forgivable and a forgivable
parking loan or loans in a total
amount not to exceed $210,000, to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the project costs needed for the redevelopment of the Variety Theatre Complex located at 11801-11850 Lorain
Avenue.
Section 2. That the summary for
the project, File No. 802-16-A, made
a part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept such collateral as the
director determines is sufficient in
order to secure repayment of the
loan.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 6. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 7. The contract authorized
in this legislation will require the
recipient of financial assistance to
work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit
qualified candidates for job opportunities related to the City’s contracts, and place special emphasis
on the hard to employ, including but
not limited to the disabled and persons who have been convicted of or
have pled guilty to a criminal
offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate
to the duties for the particular job
sought.
Section 8. That the costs of any
funding
under
this
ordinance,
including forgivable and nonforgiveable portions, shall not exceed
$460,000, and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 008, RQS 9501, RL
2016-73.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

1264

August 17, 2016
Ord. No. 803-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
and/or City Planning to enter into
one or more contracts with Janet
Zweig for professional services necessary for the design, production,
and
installation
of
a
yet-to-be
designed public artwork associated
with, and installed at, the new
Cleveland Kennel.
Whereas,
the
City
desires
to
install new artwork at the new City
Kennel to be in place concurrent
with the start of operations at the
new Kennel; and
Whereas, under Chapter 186 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, artists are selected by
the
City
Planning
Commission,
through its Public Art Committee,
based upon a specific concept; and
Whereas, however, artist Janet
Zweig was selected based upon her
qualifications and her agreement to
develop a public art concept specific to and appropriate to the new
Kennel after she received input
from the City, the Kennel, community
representatives,
and
other
appropriate groups; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
the provisions of Chapter 186 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Capital
Projects and/or City Planning is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with Janet Zweig for professional services necessary for the
design, production, and installation
of a yet-to-be designed public artwork associated with, and installed
at, the new Cleveland Kennel, for
the Office of Capital Projects and/or
the Department of City Planning
under the Public Art Program as
more fully described in Chapter 186.
Section 2. That to the extent any
part of this ordinance conflicts with
Chapter 186, this ordinance shall
control for this public artwork project.
Section 3. That the contract or
contracts shall not exceed $60,000
and shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20
SF 517, 20 SF 520, 20 SF 524, 20 SF
528, 20 SF 532, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 539,
20 SF 540, 20 SF 545, 20 SF 546, 20
SF 551, 20 SF 553, 20 SF 554, 20 SF
559, 20 SF 562, 20 SF 563, 20 SF 566,
20 SF 568, 20 SF 573, and 20 SF 574,
Request No. RQS 0103, RL 2016-68.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

August 17, 2016
Ord. No. 804-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into one or more contracts with LOGOS Communications,
Inc. dba Black Box Network Services for professional services necessary to implement the Court’s
paperless
document
management
initiative and related services; and
authorizing the employment of one
or more professional consultants to
provide related services needed to
implement the Initiative.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with LOGOS Communications, Inc.
dba Black Box Network Services for
professional services necessary to
design, install, and implement the
Court’s paperless document management initiative (“Initiative”) on the
basis of their proposal, for the
Cleveland Municipal Court.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the Cleveland
Municipal Court in order to provide
related professional services and to
enter into agreements necessary to
implement the Initiative.
The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Finance, on behalf of the
Cleveland Municipal Court, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the cost of the contracts authorized in this legislation
shall be paid from Fund No. 10 SF
089, RQS 0115 RL 2016-75.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 805-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
material capital repairs and capital
improvements to First Energy Stadium; authorizing one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement; and
professional services to design, or in
the alternative, to reimburse or
accept the gift of design and other
services from the Cleveland Browns.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1578-13, passed November 25, 2013,

The City Record
this Council authorized the Directors of Public Works and Finance to
enter into an agreement with the
Cleveland Browns Stadium Company
LLC (“Cleveland Browns”) relating
to
making
capital
repairs
and
improvements to the First Energy
Stadium (the “Stadium”); and
Whereas, under that ordinance,
the City and the Cleveland Browns
entered into an agreement dated
February 10, 2014 (the “2014 Agreement”), and the City agreed to
deposit $12 million in the Capital
Repair
Fund
(the
“$12
Million
Deposit”) to be used exclusively for
the making of certain types of Capital Repairs under the Lease as proposed by the Browns; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing the capital repairs and
improvements
to
the
Stadium,
including replacing upper concourse
lights with LEDs, sprinkler lines,
rusting metal decks under ramps,
steps, steel frame deck supports,
replacing and upgrading outdated
security cameras, repairing ducts,
pipes, and drains, rebuilding chilled
water plant and pumps, retrofitting
elevators,
exterior
envelope,
sealants,
miscellaneous
exterior
repairs, and other various items
identified in URS report dated May
5, 2014, and in several Osborn
reports commissioned by the Cleveland Browns in 2015, for the Department of Public Works or the Office
of Capital Projects, as appropriate,
by contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Works or the Director of Capital Projects, as appropriate, is
authorized to enter into contract for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding for
a gross price for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
for a gross price. On request of the
director, the contractor shall furnish
a correct schedule of unit prices,
including profit and overhead, for
all items constituting units of the
improvement.
Section 3. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing the capital repairs and
improvements
to
the
Stadium,
including
grinding
concrete,
installing full depth concrete, repairing and replacing concrete structures, ramps, concourses, framings,
guard posts, back rods, and precast
joints, repairing CRFP, miscellaneous painting, plastering, applying
sealants, and masonry repairs, and
other various items identified in

1265

89
URS report dated May 5, 2014, and
in several Osborn reports commissioned by the Cleveland Browns in
2015, for the Department of Public
Works or the Office of Capital Projects, as appropriate, by contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding on
a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Works or the Director of Capital Projects, as appropriate, is
authorized to enter into contract for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding for
a gross price for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Works or the Director of Capital Projects, as appropriate, is
authorized to apply and pay for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Works or the Director of Capital Projects, as appropriate, is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
other professionals or one or more
firms of consultants or the professionals necessary for the purpose of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City in order to provide professional services necessary
to prepare plans and specifications
to make the capital repairs and
improvements. The selection of the
professional consultants shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the appropriate director.
Section 7. That, in the alternative
to the Section 6, if the Cleveland
Browns want to prepare the plans
and specifications and be reimbursed for their cost or if they wish
to donate the plans and specifications, the Director of Public Works
or the Director of Capital Projects,
as appropriate, is authorized to
enter into an agreement with the
Cleveland Browns for that purpose.
All plans and specifications shall be
approved by the appropriate City
official.
Section 8. That, if necessary, the
Director of Public Works or the
Director of Capital Projects, as
appropriate, is authorized to accept
one or more of the following: the
gift of engineering plans, specifications, cost estimates, and schedules
necessary to implement the improvements, including construction project management services, from the
Cleveland Browns.
Section 9. That the costs of this
ordinance shall be paid from Fund
No. 20 SF 111, the Capital Repair
Fund, RQS 7005, RL 2016-19.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

90
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 806-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Keane and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to
apply for and accept one or more
grants from the US Department of
Transportation through their FY
2016 TIGER program; to enter into
contract with Parsons Brinkerhoff,
Inc. for grant application services;
to amend their FY 2015 contract to
provide additional services; and to
apply for and accept gifts, grant,
and other funding from various public and private entities to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
City Planning is authorized to apply
for and accept one or more grants
in an amount up to $37.4 million
from the US Department of Transportation through their FY 2016
Transportation Investment Generating
Economic
Recovery
Discretionary Grant (“2016 TIGER Grant”)
program to facilitate implementation of the Cleveland Multi-Modal
Facility resulting from recommendations outlined in the Cleveland
Multi Modal facility transportation
for livable communities’ initiative.
That the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the grant application placed in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the grant application for the 2016 TIGER Grant, File
No. 806-16-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten,
including the obligation of the City
of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds in the sum of $9.34 million
from
various
sources,
is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
City Planning is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with Parsons Brinkerhoff, Inc. for professional services necessary to assist
the preparation of the City of Cleveland’s 2016 Federal TIGER Grant
application, in an amount not to
exceed $19,952.64.
Section 4. The Director of City
Planning is authorized to enter into
an
amendment
to
Contract
No.
CT0110PS with Parsons Brinkerhoff,
Inc. for additional design services
required under the FY 2015 TIGER
Grant to develop a needed third
design alternative for the Cleveland
Multi-Modal Facility. The cost of the
amendment
shall
not
exceed
$14,714.36.
Section 5. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,

The City Record
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative
arrangements
with
other governmental agencies. The
Director of City Planning may sign
all documents and do all things that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the Director of
City Planning is authorized to apply
for and accept grants, other funding,
and gifts of property, services, and
money from various public and private entities, including but not limited to, NOACA, to implement this
ordinance. The Director of City
Planning is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the grants,
other funding, and gifts under this
ordinance, and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes of this
ordinance.
Section 7. That the costs of this
ordinance shall be paid from grant
funds accepted under this ordinance,
other public and private gifts and
funding, including but not limited
to, funds received from NOACA,
Fund Nos. 20 SF 517, 20 SF 520, 20
SF 524, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 532, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 539, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 545,
20 SF 546, 20 SF 551, 20 SF 553, 20
SF 554, 20 SF 559, 20 SF 562, 20 SF
563, 20 SF 566, 20 SF 568, the fund
or funds to which are credited the
future bond funds if issued for this
purpose, and the cash matches, RQS
0110, RL 2016-81.
Section 8 That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 807-16.
By Council Members Cummins and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Ohio Department of Health for Public Health Accreditation; authorizing
payment of an initial fee to the Public Health Accreditation Board necessary to receive accreditation; and
other agreements to implement the
grant.
Whereas,
accreditation
by
the
Public Health Accreditation Board
(“PHAB”) is a state-mandated activity required of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $15,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term

1266

August 17, 2016
from the Ohio Department of Health
for Public Health Accreditation; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 807-16-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public
Health
is
authorized
to
extend the term of the grant.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into any third-party software license
agreements necessary to effectuate
the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to cause
payment to the PHAB of the initial
fee.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into a subscriber services agreement
with a software vendor or provider,
which
may
include
subscription
fees, for a period not to exceed the
grant term or to exceed the grant
amount.
Section 8. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative arrangements
with
other
governmental
agencies. The Director of Public
Health may sign all documents that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 9. That the costs of this
ordinance shall be paid from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 821-16.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance designating the 3101 Euclid Avenue
Building as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed
to
designate
the
3101
Euclid Avenue Building as a landmark; and

August 17, 2016
Whereas, the owner of the 3101
Euclid Avenue Building has been
properly notified and has consented
in writing to the proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the 3101
Euclid Avenue Building as a landmark and has set forth certain findings of fact constituting the basis
for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the 3101 Euclid
Avenue
Building
whose
street
address in the City of Cleveland is
3101 Euclid Avenue, Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Numbers are 103-06-029 and 103-06-030,
and is also known as the following
described property:
Parcel No. 1 (Fee Parcel)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio
and
more
particularly
described as follows, known as
being part of the Original 10 acre
Lot
No.
87
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Euclid Avenue (99 feet wide) at a
point distant 155 feet Easterly measured along said Northerly line from
its intersection with the Easterly
line of East 30th Street (formerly
Sterling Avenue) (60 feet wide),
said place of beginning being also
the Southeasterly corner of a parcel
of land conveyed to Scripps-Howard
Radio, Inc., by deed dated March 21,
1956 and recorded in Volume 8609,

The City Record
Page
472
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence Northerly along the Easterly line of land so conveyed, 330
feet to the Northeasterly corner of
land so conveyed to Scripps-Howard
Radio, Inc.;
Thence Easterly in a direct line,
124.83 feet to a point on the Easterly line of land conveyed to The Commerce Plaza, Inc., by deed dated
December 20, 1954 and recorded in
volume 8231, Page 133 of Cuyahoga
County Records, distant 326.83 feet
Northerly,
measured
along
said
Easterly line from the Northerly line
of Euclid Avenue;
Thence Southerly along the Easterly line of land so conveyed to The
Commerce Plaza, Inc., 326.83 feet to
the Northerly line of Euclid Avenue;
Thence
Westerly
along
the
Northerly line of Euclid Avenue,
124.72 feet to the place of beginning,
be the same more or less, subject to
all legal highways;
Parcel No. 2 (Easement Parcel)
Together with an appurtenant
Easement created by Instrument
from The Commerce Plaza, Inc., to
Halley H. Lipp, Limited dba, The
3101 Euclid Ave. Co., a limited partnership aka, Halley H. Lipp dba,
The 3101 Euclid Avenue Co., filed
for record May 7, 1958 at 9:05 A.M.
and recorded in Volume 9077, Page
611 of Cuyahoga County Records,
over the following described premises; Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of the
Original 10 acre Lot No. 87 and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 30th Street, 60 feet wide, at a
point 20 feet distant Northerly measured along said Easterly line from
the Northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to Scripps-Howard Radio
Inc., by deed dated March 21, 1956
and recorded in Volume 8609, Page
472 of Cuyahoga County Records;

91
Thence Southerly along the Easterly line of East 30th Street, 20 feet
to the Northwesterly corner of land
so
conveyed
to
Scripps-Howard
Radio Inc.;
Thence
Easterly
along
the
Northerly line of land so conveyed
and along the Northerly line of land
conveyed to The 3101 Euclid Avenue
Company by deed dated September
10, 1957 and recorded in Volume
9012, Page 669 of Cuyahoga County
Records, 195 feet;
Thence Northerly and parallel
with the Easterly line of land East
30th Street, 20 feet;
Thence
Westerly
and
parallel
with the Northerly line of land conveyed to The 3101 Euclid Avenue
Company and the Northerly line of
land conveyed to Scripps-Howard
Radio Inc., as aforesaid, 195 feet to
the place of beginning, be the same
more or less subject to legal highways;
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, is designated a landmark under Chapter 161
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 822-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use and Area Districts of parcels north of Fleet Ave, between E. 49th Street and
E. 52nd Street to a ‘Limited Retail’ District, and a ‘G’ Area District as identified on the attached map (Map
Change No. 2540).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of E. 52nd Street and Fleet Avenue;
Thence northerly along the centerline of E. 52nd street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
northerly line of sublot 270 in the Joseph Stanley Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 18, Page 5
of the Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of sublot 27 in the Hugh
Davidson Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 14, Page 44 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and its prolongation across E. 50th street to its intersection with the
easterly line of sublot 21 of said subdivision;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of sublot 22 of said subdivision;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and its prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of E. 50th
street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection of Fleet Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline to the place of origin;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a ‘Limited Retail’ District, and ‘G’ Area District.
Section 2. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2540, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk
of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for
this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

1267

The City Record

92

August 17, 2016

Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective September 9, 2016.

Ord. No. 826-16.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal
to amend Section 115-2 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland relating
to the Police Review Board.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that it must be certified
to the election authorities immediately in order for the question to
appear at a special election to be
held on November 8, 2016, and providing for the usual daily operation
of a municipal department; now
therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the submission to the electors
of the City of Cleveland at a special
election to be held at the usual
places of voting in the City of Cleveland on Tuesday, November 8, 2016,
of a proposal to amend the Charter
of the City of Cleveland by amending existing Section 115-2 to read as
follows:

§ 115-2 Civilian Police Review
Board
The Civilian Police Review Board
shall consist of nine (9) members who
are representative of the diverse communities within Cleveland. Five (5)
members shall be appointed by the
Mayor. Four (4) members shall be
appointed by Council. Each of the
police districts shall be represented
by at least one (1) citizen who resides
in that district. At least one member
of the Board shall be between the
ages of 18 and 30 at the time of
appointment and may be among the
members appointed by either the
Mayor or the Council. No member of
the Board shall be employed currently as a law enforcement officer and no
member shall be a current or former
employee of the Cleveland Division of
Police. Vacancies during a term shall
be filled in the same manner as original appointments for the unexpired
term. Within 30 days of any vacancy
on the Board, including vacancies
caused by the end of a term, the City
shall post an announcement of any
vacancy and a request for applications to fill any vacancy. Members
shall be chosen from the applicants.
The members of the Civilian Police
Review Board holding the office as of

1268

the effective date of this section may
continue in office for the remainder of
their terms recognizing that all of the
police districts may not be represented until the service of those members
is completed. The two additional
members shall be appointed by Council and their terms shall commence on
February 7, 2017. The next two vacancies following the effective date of
this section, whether for a new term
or an unexpired term, shall be filled
by Council. Terms of office for members of the Board shall be for four
years. No member may serve for more
than two four-year terms when the
second term begins less than four
years after the end of the first term.
However, a person may be eligible for
appointment four years after the end
date of the second term. Time spent
fulfilling an unexpired term of two
years or less shall not be considered
as part of the two consecutive terms.
The executive head of the police
force may remove any member of the
Board, upon notice and hearing, for
neglect of duty or malfeasance in
office.
All members of the Board shall participate in initial and annual training
on topics relevant to the duties of the
Board.

August 17, 2016
Members of the Board shall receive
compensation as may be established
by the Council.
The Civilian Police Review Board
shall have its own budget separate
from the budget for the Department
of Public Safety Administration. The
person in charge of administering the
Office of Professional Standards shall
oversee the budget on behalf of, and
with guidance from, the Board.
The Board shall designate annually
one member of the Board to serve as
its chair and one member to serve as
its vice chair. No person shall serve
more than two consecutive one-year
terms in each position, but, except as
further provided, may be eligible for
appointment two years after the end
date of the second term. A person may
be eligible to serve in one of the positions for up to two consecutive oneyear terms consecutive to service in
the other position, but then may not
serve in either position for two years
after the end date of the term for the
second position even if service in the
first or second position was less than
two years.
The Board shall appoint personnel
as its staff as it deems necessary.
Section 2. That the foregoing proposed amendment to the Charter, on
receiving at least a majority of the
votes cast at the November 8, 2016,
special election, shall become effective immediately on its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of this
Council is authorized to promptly
forward a certified copy of this ordinance to the Board of Elections of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall
cause an appropriate notice to be
given of the election to be held on
November 8, 2016, on the foregoing
amendment to the Charter of this
City and otherwise to provide for
the election in the manner provided
by the general laws of the State of
Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to cause the full
text of the proposed amendment to
the Charter to be published once a
week for two consecutive weeks in
a newspaper published in the City
of Cleveland, with the first publication to be made at least fifteen days
prior to the election to be held on
November 8, 2016, as provided in
Article XVIII, Section 9 of the Constitution of the State of Ohio, Section 731.211 of the Revised Code, and
Section 200 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 6. That the ballot submitting the question of the adoption of
the amendment shall read as follows:
PROPOSED CHARTER
AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.
Shall Charter Section 115-2 regarding the Police Review Board be
amended to change the name to
Civilian Police Review Board; to
increase the size of the Board from
seven to nine members; to have the
Mayor appoint five members and the
Council appoint four members; to
limit the terms of the members to
two four-year terms within 12 years;
to provide that at least one member
of the Board shall be between the
ages of 18 and 30 when appointed;
to provide that there shall be at
least one member from each police
district; to provide that no member

The City Record
shall be a current law enforcement
officer or a current or former
employee of the Division of Police;
to provide for posting of vacancies
and application to fill those vacancies; to have the Board select the
chair and vice-chair; to limit the
terms of the chair and vice chair to
two
consecutive
one-year
terms
each, with eligibility for either
office again after two years; to provide that the Board’s budget be separate from the Department of Public Safety’s administrative budget
and be overseen by the administrator and the Board; and to provide
that Board members receive initial
and annual training?
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 924-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with Saint Martin De
Porres High School Work Study Program to participate as a sponsor of
students for work/study positions
with Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with Saint Martin De Porres
High School Work Study Program to
participate as a sponsor of students
for work/study positions with Cleveland City Council. This agreement
shall be entered into as of August 1,
2016 and shall terminate July 31, 2017.
Cleveland City Council shall provide
sponsorship for up to four students at
a time during the term. The agreement shall be certified for $34,600.00
and shall be certified from fund number 01, subfund 001, department 0101,
object 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 925-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by initiative petition).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of an initiative
petition proposing to amend the Charter of the City of Cleveland by enacting new Sections 204 through 214,
relating to City of Cleveland PartTime Workers’ Rights.

1269

93
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health, and
safety in that it must be certified to
the election authorities immediately
in order for the question to appear at
a special election to be held on November 8, 2016, and providing for the
usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland at a special election to be held at the usual places of
voting in the City of Cleveland on
Tuesday, November 8, 2016, of an initiated proposal to amend the Charter
of the City of Cleveland by enacting
new Sections 204, 205, 206, 207, 208, 209,
210, 211, 212, 213 and 214 to read as follows:
City Of Cleveland
Part-Time Workers’ Rights
SECTION 204. CREATION OF THE
PART-TIME WORKERS’ RIGHTS
COMMISSION
Promoting a healthy, prosperous
economy is important to the City and
to the quality of life for its residents.
Part-time employment opportunities
that provide a dependable and predictable source of income are a key
element of such an economy, especially for those who need to schedule and
pay for child and elder care. Treating
part-time workers with the same
respect and dignity as those who
work full-time is important to the
financial and emotional well-being of
employees.
In order to foster these kinds of
desirable
part-time
employment
opportunities for its residents, the
City hereby affirms the following:
economic productivity is increased
when employers have access to a reliable, trained and enthusiastic workforce; economic success is increased
when employees are invested in a positive outlook for their employer;
employees perform better when they
can coordinate their work and personal schedules in advance in order to
adequately address work and personal responsibilities; employees perform better when they can rely on a
predictable source of income with
which to meet their financial obligations; and employees experience
greater job satisfaction when they
feel their contributions to the employer are valued equally to that of the
other employees, regardless of status
as full-time or part-time.
For the purpose of establishing
oversight and workplace standards
that support the productivity and economic success of employers and
enhance the ability of part-time
employees to perform at their highest
potential, the Part-Time Workers’
Rights Commission is hereby established.
SECTION 205. COMPOSITION OF
THE COMMISSION
The Commission shall be composed
of five (5) individuals who shall be
appointed by the City Council to serve
without compensation. Appointments
shall be for a term of two years or until
their respective successors shall have
been appointed and duly qualified.
Such members shall be appointed in

94
such manner as to create staggered
terms. If a vacancy occurs for any
reason, the City Council shall fill the
unexpired term. Two members of the
Commission shall be representative of
employers, two members shall be
representative of part-time employees,
and one member shall represent the
general public.
For purposes of Sections 204 to 214,
the following terms have the following meanings: “part-time” shall mean
employed on an hourly basis fewer
than forty (40) hours per work week;
“full-time” shall mean employed for
forty (40) or more hours per work
week; and “employer” shall mean any
individual, corporation, partnership,
association, labor organization, legal
representative,
mutual
company,
joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, trustee, trustee in
bankruptcy, receiver, fiduciary and
other organizations, including corporate officers or executives, who
directly or indirectly or through an
agent or any other person, including
through the services of a temporary
services or staffing agency or similar
entity, employ or exercise control
over the wages, hours or working conditions of any individual.
SECTION 206. DUTIES OF THE
COMMISSION
The Commission shall have the
power, authority, and duty to:
1. Advise and consult with the City
Council on all matters involving
workplace policies and conditions for
part-time employees.
2. Serve in an advisory and consultative capacity to the City Council to
assure effective compliance with fair
part-time workplace policies and
requirements and recommend to the
City measures aimed at improving
the ability of the City to promote equitable and practical working conditions for all part-time employees.
3. Recommend to the City Council
legislation
to
aid
in
progress
designed to comply with and further
the purposes of Sections 204 to 214 and
encourage community support for
such legislation.
4. Receive complaints from any
complainant concerning alleged violations of Sections 204 to 214. The
Commission shall, upon the receipt of
such complaints, investigate and
report to the City Council in writing
the facts, findings and recommendations after using persuasion, mediation and conciliation in accordance
with the rules of the Commission as
approved by the City Council in an
attempt to provide mutual understanding and satisfaction of the problem involved.
5. Enforce the workplace requirements under Sections 204 to 214 and
make recommendations to the City
Council for any amendments as may
be needed over time to promote the
continued effective administration of
these sections.
6. Conduct research and obtain factual data to ascertain the status of
part-time employment in the City and
periodically evaluate the impact and
effectiveness of the requirements of
Sections 204 to 214.
7. Cooperate with all city, state,
county, federal, and other governmental agencies with resources helpful in
achieving mutual appreciation and
support of the social and economic
benefits of fair part-time employment

The City Record
conditions and full utilization of
human resources.
8. Employ staff as needed to effectively carry out its duties required
under this section.
SECTION 207. ADVANCE NOTICE
OF
WORK
SCHEDULES
AND
CHANGES IN WORK SCHEDULES
An employer shall provide any parttime employee with a good faith estimate via email or text message as
well as in writing of the employee’s
expected minimum number of scheduled shifts, and the days and hours of
those shifts. This estimate shall
include on-call shifts, where “on-call”
means any work shift for which an
employee must work on less than
forty-eight (48) hours’ notice. The
estimate shall not constitute a contractual offer and the employer shall
not be bound by the estimate.
An employer shall provide its parttime employees who request it with at
least two weeks’ notice of their work
schedules by doing either one of the
following at least every fourteen (14)
days: posting the work schedule in a
conspicuous place at the workplace
that is readily accessible and visible
to the requesting employees; or transmitting the work schedule by email or
text, so long as the requesting
employees are given access to the
electronic schedule at the workplace.
For
part-time
employees
who
request it, an employer shall provide
the employee on his or her first day of
employment with an initial work
schedule that runs through the date
that the next biweekly schedule for
existing employees is scheduled to be
posted or distributed. For all requesting employees, the work schedule
shall include any on-call shifts, where
applicable.
An employer may not require a
part-time employee to be on-call,
except for one mutually agreed-to
shift per week. Either party may cancel that shift without repercussion or
penalty as long as the cancellation
occurs at least (48) forty-eight hours
before the on-call shift is to start.
An employer shall provide a parttime employee notice of any change
to the employee’s schedule that has
been posted or transmitted pursuant
to this section. The employer shall
provide such notice by email or text
message as well as in writing. This
notice requirement shall not apply to
any schedule changes requested by
the employee, such as employeerequested sick leave, time off, shift
trades, or additional shifts.
The requirements of this section
shall not apply under any of the following circumstances:
1. When operations cannot begin or
continue due to threats to employees
or property, or when civil authorities
recommend that work not begin or
continue;
2. When operations cannot begin or
continue because public utilities fail
to supply electricity, water, or gas, or
there is a failure in a public utility or
sewer system; or
3. When operations cannot begin or
continue due to an act of God or other
cause not within the employer’s control.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an employer from
providing greater advance notice of
part-time employees’ work schedules
and/or changes in schedules than
that required by this section.

1270

August 17, 2016
SECTION 208. EQUAL TREATMENT FOR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Employers shall provide part-time
employees with the same starting
hourly wage as that provided to starting full-time employees who hold jobs
that require equal skill, effort, and
responsibility, and that are performed
under similar working conditions.
Pay differentials between part-time
and full-time employees are permissible if such differentials are based on
reasons other than the part-time status of the employee. This section shall
not affect the minimum hourly
requirements for receipt of benefits
including, but not limited to, health
care benefits.
Employers shall provide part-time
employees with proportional access
to employer-provided paid and unpaid
time off, including sick leave, personal leave and vacation leave, as that
afforded to full-time employees for
the same job classification. A parttime
employee’s
eligibility
for
employer-provided paid or unpaid
time off may be pro-rated based on the
number of hours that the part-time
employee works.
Employers shall provide part-time
employees with the same eligibility
for promotions as that afforded to
full-time employees for the same job
classification,
provided
that
an
employer may condition eligibility
for promotion on the employee’s availability for full-time employment and
on reasons other than the part-time
status of the employee, such as the
nature and amount of work experience.
Employers shall provide part-time
employees with the same pro-rated
eligibility for other benefits as that
afforded to full-time employees for
the same job classification.
SECTION
209.
NOTICE
OF
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
The Commission shall publish and
make available to employers, in any
language recognized by the City, a
notice suitable for posting by employers in the workplace informing parttime employees of their rights under
Sections 204 to 214. Every employer
that employs part-time employees
shall post such notice at its workplaces or job sites in conspicuous
locations to ensure that part-time
employees are informed of their
rights under these sections.
SECTIONS 210. RETENTION OF
EMPLOYMENT RECORDS
For a period of not less than three
(3) years, employers shall retain
employment and payroll records pertaining to current and former parttime employees.
SECTION 211. INVESTIGATION
AND ENFORCEMENT
Any person who claims to have
been injured by a violation of Sections 204 to 214 or who believes they
will be irrevocably injured by a violation of these sections that has
occurred or is occurring may file a
complaint with the Commission. Any
such complaint shall be filed within
one hundred eighty (180) days of the
occurrence of an alleged violation,
shall be in writing, shall identify the
person or entity alleged to have committed or alleged to be committing a
violation of these sections, and shall
state the facts upon which the allegations of a violation are based.

August 17, 2016
Upon the filing of a complaint as
herein provided, the Commission
shall cause to be made a prompt and
full investigation of the matter stated
in the complaint. During or after the
investigation, the Commission shall,
if it appears that a violation has
occurred or is threatening to occur,
attempt by informal endeavors to
effect conciliation, including voluntary discontinuance of the violation
and adequate assurance of future voluntary compliance with the provisions of Sections 204 to 214.
Upon completion of the investigation and informal endeavors at conciliation by the Commission, but within
thirty (30) days of the filing of the
complaint with the Commission, if the
efforts of the Commission to secure
voluntary compliance have been
unsuccessful, and if the Commission
has made a determination that a violation of Sections 204 to 214 has in fact
occurred, such conclusion shall be
submitted to the Director of Law who
shall make a determination regarding civil enforcement in the Cleveland Municipal Court. If the Director
of Law decides to proceed with civil
enforcement, he or she shall institute
such action within thirty (30) days
after such determination has been
made, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
If the Commission determines that
there is not probable cause to believe
that a particular alleged or suspected
violation of these sections has been
committed, the Commission shall take
no further action with respect to that
alleged or suspected offense. In such
case, the person filing the complaint
shall be notified by the Commission
and informed of any alternate action
they may take, including appeal to
the City Council.
SECTION 212. UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION
It shall be unlawful for any person
to harass, threaten, harm, damage, or
otherwise penalize any individual,
whistleblower, group, or business
because they have complied with the
provisions of Sections 204 to 214,
because they have exercised their
rights under these sections or enjoyed
the benefits of these sections, or
because they have made a charge,
allegation, testified, or assisted in
any manner in any investigation, or
in any proceeding hereunder or have
made any report to the Commission. A
violation of this section shall be subject to the penalty provisions of Section 213.
SECTION 213. PENALTY
Any person or entity violating any
provision of Sections 204 to 214 shall
be subject to a civil penalty of one
thousand ($1,000) dollars per violation. If a person or entity is assessed
three (3) such penalties in any thirtysix (36) month period, the amount of
the penalty for any subsequent violations by such person or entity shall be
increased to ten thousand ($10,000)
dollars per violation for a period of
five years. In any penalty enforcement action, the violator shall also be
liable for the attorneys’ fees of the
City and the complainant. Each day a
violation continues after the passage
of seventy-five (75) days from the
date of the filing of the initial complaint with the Commission shall constitute a separate and distinct

The City Record
offense. Any person or entity violating any provision of Sections 204 to
214 may be enjoined by a suit filed by
the City in a court of competent jurisdiction, and this remedy is in addition
to any penalty provision.
SECTION 214. LEGAL EFFECT
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or
word of Sections 204 to 214, or any
application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by a decision of a
court competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions or applications of these sections. Sections 204 to
214 are cumulative in their legal
effect and are not in lieu of any and
all other legal remedies which an
aggrieved person may pursue. Nothing in Sections 204 to 214 shall be construed as limiting the rights and
remedies that the law otherwise provides to employees nor shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any
right, requirement, power, or duty in
conflict with any federal or state law.
Section 2. That the forgoing proposed amendment to the Charter, on
receiving at least a majority of the
votes cast at the November 8, 2016,
special election, shall become effective immediately on its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of this
Council is authorized to promptly forward a certified copy of this ordinance to the Board of Elections of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall cause
an appropriate notice to be given of
the election to be held on November 8,
2016, on the foregoing amendment to
the Charter of this City and otherwise
to provide for the election in the manner provided by the general laws of
the State of Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to cause the full text of
the proposed amendment to the Charter to be published once a week for
two consecutive weeks in a newspaper published in the City of Cleveland, with the first publication to be
made at least fifteen days prior to the
special election to be held on November 8, 2016, as provided in Article
XVIII, Section 9 of the Constitution of
the State of Ohio, Section 731.211 of
the Revised Code, and Section 200 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland.
Section 6. That, for the reasons stated in the preamble hereto, which is
made a part hereof, this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the
members elected to Council.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 926-16.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 2016 St. Rocco 5K Run,
on September 3, 2016, sponsored by St.
Rocco Festival Committee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

1271

95
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
2015 St. Rocco 5K Run, on September
3, 2016, start: Fulton Road and St.
Rocco Court; Fulton south to Storer
Avenue; Storer west to West 61st
Street; West 61st north to Clark
Avenue; Clark east to Fulton Road;
Fulton south to St. Rocco Court; provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 927-16.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Susan G. Komen Race
for the Cure on August 27, 2016, managed by Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure
on August 27, 2016, start: Lakeside
Avenue and East 6th Street; Lakeside
east to East 18th Street; East 18th
south to Euclid Avenue; Euclid west
to East 12th Street; East 12th north to
Lakeside Avenue; Lakeside west to
East 9th Street; East 9th north to
Erieside Avenue; Erieside west to
West 3rd Street; West 3rd south to
Lakeside Avenue; Lakeside east to
Mall C—Finish Line; provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

96
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 929-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with CAMHP Foundation
for the Economic Rehabilitation –
One Neighbor at a Time Program
through the use of Ward 8 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective July 1, 2016
with the CAMHP Foundation for the
Economic Rehabilitation – One Neighbor at a Time Program for the public
purpose of providing financial literacy education to low and moderate
income residents residing in the city
of Cleveland through the use of Ward
8 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 930-16.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Near West Side
Multi Service Corporation (dba) May
Dugan Center for the Food Distribution Program through the use of
Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective September 1,
2016 with the Near West Side Multi
Service
Corporation
(dba)
May
Dugan Center for the Food Distribution Program for the public purpose
of providing fresh food and produce to

The City Record
low income residents residing in the
city of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 3 casino revenue funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $7,500 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall p r e p F a r e a n d a p p r o v e s a i d
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions as
he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 931-16.
By Council Members McCormack,
Mitchell and Kazy.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Cleveland Public
Theatre for the Student Theatre
Enrichment
Program
(STEP)
through the use of Wards 3, 6 and 16
Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement with Cleveland Public
Theatre for the Student Theatre
Enrichment Program (STEP) for the
public purpose of providing theatre
education and training on live arts to
city of Cleveland youth through the
use of Wards 3, 6 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $20,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 968-16.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Brick City Produc-

1272

August 17, 2016
tions or with its fiscal agent University Circle Inc, for the Papa Resource
and Education Expo through the use
of Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective August 10,
2016 with Brick City Productions or
with its fiscal agent University Circle
Inc, for the Papa Resource and Education Expo for the public purpose of
providing educational programming
and social support resources to grandparent households that have the
responsibility of raising grandchildren in the city of Cleveland through
the use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $2,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 969-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement
with
the
Cleveland
Restoration Society for the Heritage
Home Program through the use of
Wards 1 and 6 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department
of
C o m m un i t y
Development is hereby authorized to
enter into agreement effective July 1,
2016 with the Cleveland Restoration
Society for the Heritage Home
Program for the public purpose of
providing housing rehabilitation
services to residents residing in the
city of Cleveland through the use of
Ward(s) 1 and 6 casino revenue funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $16,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.

The City Record

August 17, 2016
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 970-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Pruitt, Reed, McCormack, Cleveland,
Mitchell, Dow, Polensek, Conwell, J.
Johnson, Brady, Kelley, Cummins,
Kazy, and Keane.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker
Square Development Corporation for
the Eleven Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16 and
17 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement with the Buckeye
Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven Angels Community Garden Project for the public purpose of promoting community green
space and beautification in the city of
Cleveland through the use of Wards 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16 and 17
Casino Revenue Funds
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $12,300 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the

affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

Ord. No. 985-16.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Public Health to enter into agreement
with African American Male Wellness Walk for the African American
Male Health Expo through the use of
Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Health is hereby authorized to enter into agreement
effective August 24, 2016 with the
African American Male Wellness
Walk for the African American Male
Health Expo for the public purpose of
providing health education and information on healthy life style practices
to African American Males residing
in the city of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 9 Casino revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $7,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

97
Ord. No. 986-16.
By Council Members Brady and
Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the City of Cleveland to accept the
donation from Ozanne Construction
Company and any assisting company
of deconstruction and removal services of the gazebo and related structures at Cudell Recreation Center;
and authorizing the transfer of the
deconstructed structures to the Tamir
Rice Foundation, an Ohio nonprofit
corporation.
Whereas, the gazebo structure and
related structures at Cudell Recreation Center are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland is authorized to accept the donation from Ozanne Construction Company, and any company that may
assist it, of deconstruction and
removal services of the gazebo and
related structures located at Cudell
Recreation Center.
Section 2. That Ozanne Construction Company and any assisting company are authorized to transfer the
deconstructed structures to the Tamir
Rice Foundation, an Ohio nonprofit
corporation.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 10, 2016.
Effective August 11, 2016.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

NO MEETINGS

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Appreciation
Appreciation Resolution for Reverend Nathan N. Nance (R 1009-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180

Assessment Equalization Board
Approving the report of the Assessment Equalization Board on objections concerning estimated
assessments with respect to the continuation and expansion of the Ohio City Cleveland
Business Improvement District and the comprehensive services plan for safety, maintenance
and other services to be provided for the District; determining to proceed with the plan to
provide public services within the District; adopting the assessments; levying the
assessments; and authorizing the City to enter into an agreement with the Ohio City
Improvement Corporation. (O 798-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1262

1273

The City Record

98

August 17, 2016

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Berkshire Avenue, 11114 (Ward 9) – Joseph Henderson, owner — appeal adopted on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-105-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bonna Avenue, 6808 (Ward 7) – Cleveland Harris, owner — appeal adopted on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-99-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Avenue, 7405 (Ward 5) – James R. Billups c/o Joan Hampton, owner —
appeal postponed to 9/7/16 on 8/10/16 (Doc. A-121-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbus Road, 1927 (Ward 3) – Keith Brown, owner — appeal resolved on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-117-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cumberland Avenue, 10004 (Ward 4) – Thor Real Estate, owner — appeal adopted on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-102-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 2628 (Ward 3) – Scott L. Scrivens, owner — appeal postponed to 8/24/16
on 8/10/16 (Doc. A-120-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 6419 (Ward 15) – Medici Properties LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
8/10/16 (Doc. A-142-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 3938 (Ward 1) – Denise Wells-Seals, owner — appeal resolved on
8/10/16 (Doc. A-115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 49th Street, 3343 (Ward 5) – Arthur Ray Lawrence, owner — appeal resolved on
8/10/16 (Doc. A-148-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 52nd Street, 3454 (Ward 5) – Joseph M. Mementowski, owner — appeal resolved
on 8/10/16 (Doc. A-125-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 66th Street, 1142 (Ward 7) – Carla Robinson, owner — appeal adopted on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-103-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 70th Street, 2214 (Ward 5) – Regina A. Fortner, owner — appeal resolved on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-112-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 2044 (Ward 5) – 2044 Euclid Lofts, LLC, owner — no action on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-145-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hague Avenue, 6805 (Ward 15) – Schultz Financial Company, LLC, owner — appeal postponed
to 8/24/16 on 8/10/16 (Doc. A-118-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Laverne Avenue, 16408 (Ward 17) – Robert Watson, owner — appeal adopted on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-104-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 5231 (a.k.a. 2015 West 53rd Street & 5221 Lorain Avenue) (Ward 3) – 2015
West 53rd Cleveland LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 8/10/16 (Doc. A-108-16) . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Avenue, 3814 (Ward 5) – First Prospect Development LLC, owner —
appeal postponed to 10/5/16 on 8/10/16 (Doc. A-119-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 18914 (Ward 17) – Christine Kis, owner — appeal adopted on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-101-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rexwood Avenue, 14101 (Ward 1) – Georgianna B. White, owner — appeal adopted on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-110-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 101st Street, 2043 (Ward 15) – Paul Bunn, owner — appeal adopted on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-106-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 54th Street, 3434 (Ward 14) – Jezeel Acosta, owner — appeal adopted on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-107-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 56th Street, 3466 (Ward 14) – Nathan A. Prusak, owner — appeal adopted on 8/10/16
(Doc. A-98-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Engineering services for Public Improvement Projects — per Ord. 658-16 to City
Architecture Inc. (BOC Res. 355-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engineering services for Public Improvement Projects — per Ord. 658-16 to Richard
L. Bowen & Associates (BOC Res. 356-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lonnie Burton Recreation Center Improvements — per Ord. 732-14 to Nerone and Sons, Inc.
(BOC Res. 366-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Multiple Park Site Improvements — per Ord. 282-15 to R.J. Platten Contracting
Company (BOC Res. 357-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1221
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
75 vehicle squitter units — consent to assignment of Contract #RC2015*038 to Harris
Corporation — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 353-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217
Flight Information Display System — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Gentrack, LTD — Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 351-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 85th Street, 2245 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-29-049 — David Brandon Roney (BOC Res. 363-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220
Sowinski Avenue, 8226 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-06-071 — Patsy Threat Hewlett (BOC Res. 364-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220

Board of Control — Easements
City owned property known as PPN 012-26-007 — convey easement to Linda M. Myles per Ord.
723-16 — Division of Purchases and Supplies, Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 360-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220
City owned property located at northeast corner of E. 18th St. and Payne Ave. — convey
easement to East Ohio Gas Company dba Dominion East Ohio per Ord. 705-16 — Division
of Purchases and Supplies, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 358-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218

1274

August 17, 2016

The City Record

99

Board of Control — Land Reconveyance
City owned property known as PPN 012-26-007 — convey easement to Linda M. Myles per Ord.
723-16 — Division of Purchases and Supplies, Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 360-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220
City owned property located at northeast corner of E. 18th St. and Payne Ave. — convey
easement to East Ohio Gas Company dba Dominion East Ohio per Ord. 705-16 — Division
of Purchases and Supplies, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 358-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218
City-owned property located east of E. 59th St. and Euclid Ave. — convey
to Hemingway Development, LLC. per Ord. 405-15 — Division of Purchases and Supplies,
Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 365-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1221

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 85th Street, 2245 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-29-049 — David Brandon Roney (BOC Res. 363-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220
Sowinski Avenue, 8226 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-06-071 — Patsy Threat Hewlett (BOC Res. 364-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220

Board of Control — Law Department
City owned property known as PPN 012-26-007 — convey easement to Linda M. Myles per Ord.
723-16 — Division of Purchases and Supplies (BOC Res. 360-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220
City-owned property located east of E. 59th St. and Euclid Ave. — convey
to Hemingway Development, LLC. per Ord. 405-15 — Division of Purchases and Supplies
(BOC Res. 365-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1221

Board of Control — Permits
Reservation fee rates for special events in Public Square — per Res. 161-91 (BOC Res. 359-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1219

Board of Control — Port Control Department
75 vehicle squitter units — consent to assignment of Contract #RC2015*038 to Harris
Corporation — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 353-16).
Flight Information Display System — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Gentrack, LTD — Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 351-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System — first modify Contract
#PS2015*043 — amend BOC Res. 1-15 (BOC Res. 352-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sustainable Roofing System design/build services — per Ord. 382-16 to Rooftop Green, LLC
(BOC Res. 354-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Engineering services for Public Improvement Projects — per Ord. 658-16 to City
Architecture Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 355-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engineering services for Public Improvement Projects — per Ord. 658-16 to Richard
L. Bowen & Associates — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 356-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flight Information Display System — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Gentrack, LTD — Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 351-16) . . . . . . .
General Engineering Services IX project — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to MWH Americas, Inc. —
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 350-16) . .
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System — first modify Contract
#PS2015*043 — amend BOC Res. 1-15 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 352-16) . . . . . . . . .
Sustainable Roofing System design/build services — per Ord. 382-16 to Rooftop Green, LLC —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 354-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217

Board of Control — Property Management Division
Capital maintenance and repair of city facilities — plumbing — per C.O. Sec. 131.67 — all
bids rejected — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Engineering services for Public Improvement Projects — per Ord. 658-16 to City
Architecture Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 355-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engineering services for Public Improvement Projects — per Ord. 658-16 to Richard
L. Bowen & Associates — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 356-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lonnie Burton Recreation Center Improvements — per Ord. 732-14 to Nerone and Sons, Inc. —
Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 366-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Multiple Park Site Improvements — per Ord. 282-15 to R.J. Platten Contracting Company —
Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 357-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sustainable Roofing System design/build services — per Ord. 382-16 to Rooftop Green, LLC —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 354-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1221
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
City owned property located at northeast corner of E. 18th St. and Payne Ave. — convey
easement to East Ohio Gas Company dba Dominion East Ohio per Ord. 705-16 — Division
of Purchases and Supplies (BOC Res. 358-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218

1275

The City Record

100

August 17, 2016

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
General Engineering Services IX project — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to MWH Americas, Inc. —
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Capital maintenance and repair of city facilities — plumbing — per C.O. Sec. 131.67 — all
bids rejected — Division of Property Management (BOC Res. 361-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220
Large capacity trucks with operators — per Ord. 122-15 to Aggregate Construction, Inc. —
Division of Streets (BOC Res. 362-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
City owned property known as PPN 012-26-007 — convey easement to Linda M. Myles per Ord.
723-16 — Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 360-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220
City owned property located at northeast corner of E. 18th St. and Payne Ave. — convey
easement to East Ohio Gas Company dba Dominion East Ohio per Ord. 705-16 — Dept. of
Public Safety (BOC Res. 358-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218
City-owned property located east of E. 59th St. and Euclid Ave. — convey
to Hemingway Development, LLC. per Ord. 405-15 — Dept. of Law (BOC Res. 365-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1221

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
75 vehicle squitter units — consent to assignment of Contract #RC2015*038 to Harris
Corporation — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 353-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217
Capital maintenance and repair of city facilities — plumbing — per C.O. Sec. 131.67 — all
bids rejected — Division of Property Management, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220
Large capacity trucks with operators — per Ord. 122-15 to Aggregate Construction, Inc. —
Division of Streets, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 362-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220

Board of Control — Streets Division
Large capacity trucks with operators — per Ord. 122-15 to Aggregate Construction, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 362-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220

Board of Control — Water Division
General Engineering Services IX project — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to MWH Americas, Inc. —
Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
General Engineering Services IX project — per C.O. Sec. 129.294 to MWH Americas, Inc. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Brevier Avenue, 1811 (Ward 3) – Stephen Duirk, owner — appeal heard on 8/15/16
(Cal. 16-158) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue (Unit A), 4801 (Ward 3) – 4201 Bridge LLC, owner — appeal heard on 8/15/16
(Cal. 16-105) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brookpark Road, 4720 (Ward 13) – Bassam Shihada, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
8/15/16 (Cal. 16-162) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clifford Avenue, 14213 (Ward 16) – Jeffrey Sommer and Korky Thacker, owners —
appeal granted and adopted on 8/15/16 (Cal. 16-163) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clinton Avenue, 4502 (Ward 3) – Jim Curley and Mike Kane, owners — appeal heard on
8/15/16 (Cal. 16-171) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 927 (Ward 9) – Paul McPherson, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
8/15/16 (Cal. 16-149) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th Street, 589 (Ward 8) – Curtis A. Hart, owner — appeal postponed to 9/19/16
on 8/15/16 (Cal. 16-84) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Court, 4009 (Ward 3) – Niagara Homes LTD., owner — appeal granted and adopted on
8/15/16 (Cal. 16-152) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landmarks Commission — Thomas, Kathleen — appeal dismissed on 8/15/16 (Cal. 16-76) . . . .
Lansing Avenue, 6505 (Ward 12) – Polish American Cultural Center — appeal heard on
8/15/16 (Cal. 16-167) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Road, 3934 (Ward 1) – Strawbridge Family Corp., owner — appeal reheard on 8/29/16
(Cal. 16-34) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professor Avenue, 2376 (Ward 3) – Don Shury, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
8/15/16 (Cal. 16-59). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Avenue, 700 (Ward 3) – U.C.C., owner — appeal postponed to 9/26/16 on 8/15/16
(Cal. 16-164) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1276

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1238
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237

August 17, 2016

The City Record

101

Starkweather Avenue, 781 (Ward 3) – Akram Boutros, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 8/15/16 (Cal. 16-157) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 3615 (Ward 7) – Tylerville, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 8/15/16
(Cal. 16-127) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner Road, 4533 (Ward 2) – Rightway Investments, owner — appeal withdrawn on 8/15/16
(Cal. 16-117) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 11th Street, 2232 (Ward 3) – Microhouse Cleveland, owner — appeal heard on 8/15/16
(Cal. 16-168) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street (Common Drive — Lot G), 1912-1920 (Ward 3) – 4201 Bridge LLC, owner —
appeal heard on 8/15/16 (Cal. 16-111) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street (Unit B), 1912 (Ward 3) – 4201 Bridge LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 8/15/16 (Cal. 16-107) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street (Unit C), 1914 (Ward 3) – 4201 Bridge LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 8/15/16 (Cal. 16-106) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street (Unit D), 1916 (Ward 3) – 4201 Bridge LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 8/15/16 (Cal. 16-108) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street (Unit E), 1918 (Ward 3) – 4201 Bridge LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 8/15/16 (Cal. 16-109) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street (Unit F), 1920 (Ward 3) – 4201 Bridge LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 8/15/16 (Cal. 16-110) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Whitethorn Avenue, 8105 (Ward 7) – Deborah Gordon, owner — appeal heard on 8/15/16
(Cal. 16-166) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Bridge Avenue (Sublot 3), 4011 (Ward 3) – Triban Investments, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-188) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue (Unit 4a), 4011 (Ward 3) – Triban Investments, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-185) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue (Unit 4b), 4011 (Ward 3) – Triban Investments, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-184) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue, 4015 (Ward 3) – Triban Investments, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on
8/29/16 (Cal. 16-186) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue, 5409 (Ward 15) – Tupelo Properties 1 LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on
8/29/16 (Cal. 16-180) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Court Corner lot, 4195 (Ward 3) – B.R. Knez, Construction, owner — appeal to be
heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-215) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Court Sublot 1, 4195 (Ward 3) – B.R. Knez, Construction, owner — appeal to
be heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-209) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Court Sublot 2, 4195 (Ward 3) – B.R. Knez, Construction, owner — appeal to
be heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-210) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Court Sublot 3, 4195 (Ward 3) – B.R. Knez, Construction, owner — appeal to
be heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-211) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Court Unit 4, 4195 (Ward 3) – B.R. Knez, Construction, owner — appeal to be heard
on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-212) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Court Unit 5, 4195 (Ward 3) – B.R. Knez, Construction, owner — appeal to be heard
on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-213) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Court Unit 6, 4195 (Ward 3) – B.R. Knez, Construction, owner — appeal to be heard
on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-214) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Avenue, 13215 (Ward 1) – 131 Miles LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 8/29/16
(Cal. 16-179) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Randall Road (Sublot 5), 1953 (Ward 3) – Triban Investments, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-199) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Randall Road (Sublot 6), 1953 (Ward 3) – Triban Investments, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-200) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Randall Road (Sublot 7), 1953 (Ward 3) – Triban Investments, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-201) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Randall Road (Sublot 8), 1953 (Ward 3) – Triban Investments, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-202) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Randall Road (Sublot 9), 1953 (Ward 3) – Triban Investments, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-203) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Randall Road, 1937 (Ward 3) – Triban Investments, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 8/29/16 (Cal. 16-187) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2447 (Ward 3) – Mendo Veloff, owner — appeal to be heard on
8/29/16 (Cal. 16-178) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1234
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1234
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1234
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1234
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1233
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1236
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1235
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1235
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1236
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1236
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1236
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1236
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1233
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1234
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1235
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1235
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1235
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1235
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1234
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1233

Bonds
Authorizing refunding and remarketing of airport system revenue bonds; authorizing
supplemental indentures and other agreements related to the bonds; and authorizing and
approving related matters. (O 909-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180

Bridges
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio
for rehabilitating the Martin Luther King, Jr. bridge over Doan Brook; to apply for and
accept any gifts or grants from any public or private entity; authorizing the Director of

1277

The City Record

102

August 17, 2016

Capital Projects to enter into any relative agreements; and causing payment of the City’s
share to the State for the cost of the improvement. (O 917-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of
Ohio to rehabilitate the St. Casmir Way Bridge over Doan Brook; authorizing any other
relative agreements; and to cause payment to the State for the City’s share of the
improvement. (O 918-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189

Budget Commission
Accepting the amounts and rates as determined by the Cuyahoga County Budget Commission
and authorizing the necessary tax levies and certifying them to the County Fiscal Officer.
(R 907-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191

Building & Housing Department
To supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting new Section
337.231, Portable Storage Containers, to regulate use of portable storage containers to
protect the public safety and aesthetics of residential neighborhoods in the City; and
amending Section 327.99, as amended by Ordinance No. 1396-14, passed December 8, 2014,
regarding penalty. (O 440-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1255

Business Improvement District
Approving the report of the Assessment Equalization Board on objections concerning
estimated assessments with respect to the continuation and expansion of the Ohio City
Cleveland Business Improvement District and the comprehensive services plan for safety,
maintenance and other services to be provided for the District; determining to proceed
with the plan to provide public services within the District; adopting the assessments;
levying the assessments; and authorizing the City to enter into an agreement with the
Ohio City Improvement Corporation. (O 798-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1262

Capital Projects
To add the name David D. Dawson, Sr. Way as a secondary and honorary name to Thames
Avenue. (O 792-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1261
To add the name George and Janet Voinovich Way as a secondary and honorary name to
Schenely Avenue. (O 793-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1261
Designating Griswold Avenue between Kinsman Avenue and East 61st Street with a secondary
and honorary designation of “C. D. Gant Way”. (O 794-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1261
Designating Central Avenue from East 68th Street to East 85th Street with a secondary and
honorary designation of “Stanley Jackson, Sr. Way”. (O 795-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1261
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects and/or City Planning to enter into one or more
contracts with Janet Zweig for professional services necessary for the design, production,
and installation of a yet to be designed public artwork associated with, and installed at,
the new Cleveland Kennel. (O 803-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1264
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Noel Caraballo to encroach
into the public right of way of West-16th Street by installing, using, and maintaining an
asphalt drive. (O 916-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio
for rehabilitating the Martin Luther King, Jr. bridge over Doan Brook; to apply for and
accept any gifts or grants from any public or private entity; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into any relative agreements; and causing payment of the City’s
share to the State for the cost of the improvement. (O 917-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio to
rehabilitate the St. Casmir Way Bridge over Doan Brook; authorizing any other relative
agreements; and to cause payment to the State for the City’s share of the improvement.
(O 918-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Urging the Director of Capital Projects to establish and consult with the Bicycle and
Pedestrian Advisory Committee in order to carry out the goals of the Complete and Green
Streets ordinance, Climate Action Plan, Master Bikeway Implementation Plan, and other
plans that impact biking and walking. (R 987-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Case Western Reserve University
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into an amendment and restatement to a
Lease Agreement with the Cleveland Museum of Art to change certain terms of the lease,
including but not limited to, the term and development issues relating to Case Western
Reserve University’s Greenway Connector Project; and authorizing the Director to lease
certain properties located in Wade Park to the Cleveland Art Museum and Case Western
Reserve University for the purpose of implementing the Project, for a term of ninety-nine
years, with one option to renew, for an additional ninety-nine years. (O 649-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1256

Casino Revenue Funds
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with CAMHP Foundation for the Economic Rehabilitation One Neighbor at a
Time Program through the use of Ward 8 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 929-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272

1278

August 17, 2016

The City Record

Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Near West Side Multi Service Corporation (dba) May Dugan Center
for the Food Distribution Program through the use of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
(O 930-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program
through the use of Wards 1 and 6 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 969-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13,
14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Public Health to enter into agreement with
African American Male Wellness Walk for the African American Male Health Expo
through the use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 985-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

103

. . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272

. . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272

. . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

. . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Charter
Authorizing the submission to the electors of the City of Cleveland of a proposal to amend
Section 115 2 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland relating to the Police Review Board.
(O 826-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1268
Authorizing the submission to the electors of the City of Cleveland of an initiative petition
proposing to amend the Charter of the City of Cleveland by enacting new Sections 204
through 214, relating to City of Cleveland Part Time Workers’ Rights. (O 925-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193-1269

City of Cleveland Bids
Disposal of Catch Basin Debris (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 996-03 — bid due September 7, 2016
(advertised 8/17/2016 and 8/24/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fencing and Gates — Department of Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport — per Ord. 333-16 — bid due August 31, 2016
(advertised 8/10/2016 and 8/17/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Highland Park Cemetery Mausoleum Improvements (Re-bid) — Department of Public Works
— per Ord. 537-12 — bid due September 15, 2016 (advertised 8/17/2016 and 8/24/2016). . . . . .
Labor & Materials to Maintain Vehicles, Trucks and Various Types of Equipment (Re-bid)—
Department of Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
- per Ord. 225-15 — bid due August 31, 2016 (advertised 8/10/2016 and 8/17/2016) . . . . . . . . . .
Sewer Maintenance Appurtenance Slabs — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water
Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 129.27 — bid due September 7, 2016
(advertised 8/17/2016 and 8/24/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1240

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1239

City Planning Commission
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects and/or City Planning to enter into one or more
contracts with Janet Zweig for professional services necessary for the design, production,
and installation of a yet to be designed public artwork associated with, and installed at,
the new Cleveland Kennel. (O 803-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of City Planning to apply for and accept one or more grants from the
US Department of Transportation through their FY 2016 TIGER program; to enter into
contract with Parsons Brinkerhoff, Inc. for grant application services; to amend their
FY 2015 contract to provide additional services; and to apply for and accept gifts, grant,
and other funding from various public and private entities to implement the grant.
(O 806-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Designating the 3101 Euclid Avenue Building as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 821-16) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Use and Area Districts of parcels north of Fleet Ave, between E. 49th Street and
E. 52nd Street to a ‘Limited Retail’ District, and a ‘G’ Area District as identified on the
attached map (Map Change No. 2540). (O 822-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1215-1264

. . . . . . . . . . 1215-1266
. . . . . . . . . . 1216-1266

. . . . . . . . . . 1216-1267

Clerk of Council
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with American Legal Publishing
Corporation for the professional services necessary to provide all necessary supplemental
or replacement pages to the Charter and the Codified Ordinances, to provide webhosting
services and regular on line updates to the Charter and the Code, to provide an annual
review and comparison to Code Parts IV and VI to the Ohio Revised Code, and other
services as may be deemed necessary for Code supplementation, and to authorize any
amendments to the contract that may be necessary for additional printings of the Codified
Ordinances during the term. (O 920-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into one or more internship agreements with various
individuals to provide assistance to the Office of the Clerk and the members of Cleveland
City Council in any and all matters related to official Council business. (O 921-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with Saint Martin De Porres High
School Work Study Program to participate as a sponsor of students for work/study
positions with Cleveland City Council. (O 924-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193-1269

1279

The City Record

104

August 17, 2016

Cleveland Browns
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to lease Docks 28B, 30, and 32, excluding the
warehouses on Docks 30 and 32, to the Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC for
surface parking and staging special event programming for ten Cleveland Browns home
games, any NFL playoff games and up to nine other events a year, for a period of one year.
(O 718-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1261
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing material capital
repairs and capital improvements to First Energy Stadium; authorizing one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; and professional services to
design, or in the alternative, to reimburse or accept the gift of design and other services
from the Cleveland Browns. (O 805-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265

Cleveland Public Theater
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre for the Student Theatre Enrichment Program
(STEP) through the use of Wards 3, 6 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 931-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272

Codified Ordinances
To supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting new Section
337.231, Portable Storage Containers, to regulate use of portable storage containers to
protect the public safety and aesthetics of residential neighborhoods in the City; and
amending Section 327.99, as amended by Ordinance No. 1396-14, passed December 8, 2014,
regarding penalty. (O 440-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1255
To supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting new sections
174.01 through 174.06 relating to Cleveland Minimum Wage. (O 621-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216
To amend Sections 630.01 and 630.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No.141-09, passed March 30, 2009, relating to criminal activity
nuisances. (O 665-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1259
To amend Section 675A.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 979-13, passed July 10, 2013, to limit the times during which street
performers may perform in order to minimize excessive noise in the evenings and
mornings for residents. (O 919-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with American Legal Publishing
Corporation for the professional services necessary to provide all necessary supplemental
or replacement pages to the Charter and the Codified Ordinances, to provide webhosting
services and regular on line updates to the Charter and the Code, to provide an annual
review and comparison to Code Parts IV and VI to the Ohio Revised Code, and other
services as may be deemed necessary for Code supplementation, and to authorize any
amendments to the contract that may be necessary for additional printings of the Codified
Ordinances during the term. (O 920-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189

Communications
Oath of Office for James O. Laing, Captain of Fire, City of Cleveland. (F 896-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179

Community Development
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to transfer Permanent Parcel Nos.
118-06-028, 118-06-029, and 118-06-049 located between East 65th Street and East 66th Street
fronting Euclid Avenue, to the control, possession, and use of the Department of Economic
Development Industrial Commercial Land Bank for future redevelopment. (O 913-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with CAMHP Foundation for the Economic Rehabilitation One Neighbor at a
Time Program through the use of Ward 8 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 929-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Near West Side Multi Service Corporation (dba) May Dugan Center
for the Food Distribution Program through the use of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
(O 930-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre for the Student Theatre Enrichment Program
(STEP) through the use of Wards 3, 6 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 931-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Brick City Productions or with its fiscal agent University Circle Inc, for
the Papa Resource and Education Expo through the use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue
Funds. (O 968-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program
through the use of Wards 1 and 6 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 969-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13,
14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

1280

The City Record

August 17, 2016

105

Condolences
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence
Condolence

Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution
Resolution

for
for
for
for
for
for
for

Howard Ray Harris (R 991-16) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Emogene Pruitt (R 992-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Catherine A. (Ledinsky) Gresky (R 993-16)
Annie Bell Bailey (R 994-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Norman Joseph Brindza (R 995-16). . . . . . . . .
John Michael Awarski (R 996-16) . . . . . . . . . .
Francis A. Rutkowski (R 997-16) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1179
1179
1179
1179
1179
1179
1180

Congratulations
Congratulations Resolution for Evana Lee Jackson (R 998-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180

Contracts
Determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating the storm and
sanitary sewer systems in and around the IX Center and discharge centers, and
constructing infrastructure improvements needed for the rehabilitation; and authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement. (O 700-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1260
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with the Detroit
Shoreway Community Development Organization, or its designee, to provide economic
development assistance to partially finance the project costs needed for the redevelopment
of the Variety Theatre Complex located at 11801-11850 Lorain Avenue. (O 802-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1264
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects and/or City Planning to enter into one or more
contracts with Janet Zweig for professional services necessary for the design, production,
and installation of a yet to be designed public artwork associated with, and installed at,
the new Cleveland Kennel. (O 803-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1264
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to enter into
one or more contracts with LOGOS Communications, Inc. dba Black Box Network Services
for professional services necessary to implement the Court’s paperless document
management initiative and related services; and authorizing the employment of one or
more professional consultants to provide related services needed to implement the
Initiative. (O 804-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first options to renew various
contracts for the requirements for services and materials necessary to maintain and
repair pumps, motors, controls, transformers, circuit breakers, switchgear, and
appurtenances, including but not limited to inspection, supplies, repairing and testing
for the Division of Water. (O 910-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first option to renew Contract No.
RCD 2015-11 with the Hach Company to maintain, service, calibrate, refurbish, and test
various scientific and in line process analytical instruments used to monitor the drinking
water purification process. (O 911-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first options to renew Contract No.
RCD 2015-12 with Hach Company and Contract No. RCD 2015-10 with HSQ Technology, A
Corporation, for the requirements to maintain and replace proprietary components of
control systems for the Division of Water. (O 912-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with American Legal Publishing
Corporation for the professional services necessary to provide all necessary supplemental
or replacement pages to the Charter and the Codified Ordinances, to provide webhosting
services and regular on line updates to the Charter and the Code, to provide an annual
review and comparison to Code Parts IV and VI to the Ohio Revised Code, and other
services as may be deemed necessary for Code supplementation, and to authorize any
amendments to the contract that may be necessary for additional printings of the Codified
Ordinances during the term. (O 920-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into one or more internship agreements with various
individuals to provide assistance to the Office of the Clerk and the members of Cleveland
City Council in any and all matters related to official Council business. (O 921-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into an agreement with Saint Martin De Porres High
School Work Study Program to participate as a sponsor of students for work/study
positions with Cleveland City Council. (O 924-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193-1269

Cuyahoga County
Accepting the amounts and rates as determined by the Cuyahoga County Budget Commission
and authorizing the necessary tax levies and certifying them to the County Fiscal Officer.
(R 907-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Requesting the County Fiscal Officer to make advances during the year 2017, pursuant to
Section 321.34, Ohio Revised Code. (R 908-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Detroit Shoreway Community Development Corporation
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment to Contract No.
67924 and the Promissory Note with Detroit Shoreway Community Development
Organization, or their designee, for the historical renovation of the Capitol Theatre, to
allow for a deferral of principal and interest from September 1, 2015 until July 31, 2016,
and other contract modifications. (O 915-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187

1281

The City Record

106

August 17, 2016

Economic Development Department
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a HUD 108
Empowerment Zone loan from the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development to partially finance the development of an office building located at 10500
Cedar Avenue and other associated costs necessary to redevelop the properties; and
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one or more agreements
with Hemingway Development LLC, or its designee, for the project. (O 799-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1263
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement
with Hemingway Development LLC, or its designee, to provide for tax abatement for
certain real property improvements as an incentive for the development of an office
building located at 10500 Cedar Avenue in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone. (O 800-16) . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1263
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with the Detroit
Shoreway Community Development Organization, or its designee, to provide economic
development assistance to partially finance the project costs needed for the redevelopment
of the Variety Theatre Complex located at 11801-11850 Lorain Avenue. (O 802-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1264
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to transfer Permanent Parcel Nos.
118-06-028, 118-06-029, and 118-06-049 located between East 65th Street and East 66th Street
fronting Euclid Avenue, to the control, possession, and use of the Department of Economic
Development Industrial Commercial Land Bank for future redevelopment. (O 913-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a forgivable loan agreement
with Burten Bell Carr Development, Inc., or its designee, to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance capital, parking lot, and site improvements at Arbor Park
Place located at the southwest corner of East 40th Street and Community College Avenue,
to assist with management of the center, and other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property. (O 914-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment to Contract No.
67924 and the Promissory Note with Detroit Shoreway Community Development
Organization, or their designee, for the historical renovation of the Capitol Theatre, to
allow for a deferral of principal and interest from September 1, 2015 until July 31, 2016,
and other contract modifications. (O 915-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187

Encroachments
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Noel Caraballo to encroach
into the public right of way of West-16th Street by installing, using, and maintaining an
asphalt drive. (O 916-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement
with Hemingway Development LLC, or its designee, to provide for tax abatement for
certain real property improvements as an incentive for the development of an office
building located at 10500 Cedar Avenue in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone. (O 800-16) . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1263

Finance Department
To supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting new sections 174.01
through 174.06 relating to Cleveland Minimum Wage. (O 621-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to apply for
and accept a grant from the Supreme Court of Ohio for the Court Technology Project; and
authorizing the Director to enter into one or more contracts with Justice A/V Solutions,
Inc. and other consultants for professional services necessary to implement the grant.
(O 797-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1262
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to enter into
one or more contracts with LOGOS Communications, Inc. dba Black Box Network Services
for professional services necessary to implement the Court’s paperless document
management initiative and related services; and authorizing the employment of one or
more professional consultants to provide related services needed to implement the
Initiative. (O 804-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
Authorizing refunding and remarketing of airport system revenue bonds; authorizing
supplemental indentures and other agreements related to the bonds; and authorizing and
approving related matters. (O 909-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180

Finances
Accepting the amounts and rates as determined by the Cuyahoga County Budget Commission
and authorizing the necessary tax levies and certifying them to the County Fiscal Officer.
(R 907-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Requesting the County Fiscal Officer to make advances during the year 2017, pursuant to
Section 321.34, Ohio Revised Code. (R 908-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Fire Division
Oath of Office for James O. Laing, Captain of Fire, City of Cleveland. (F 896-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179

1282

August 17, 2016

The City Record

107

Gifts
From Director Michael McGrath, Department of Public Safety, City of Cleveland. Notice of gift
acceptance of $4,000 from U.S. Department of Transportation through University Hospitals
of Cleveland. (F 897-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Authorizing the City of Cleveland to accept the donation from Ozanne Construction Company
and any assisting company of deconstruction and removal services of the gazebo and
related structures at Cudell Recreation Center; and authorizing the transfer of the
deconstructed structures to the Tamir Rice Foundation, an Ohio nonprofit corporation.
(O 986-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Grants
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to accept a grant from the United States Department
of Justice for the FY 2014 COPS Hiring Program. (O 796-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to apply for
and accept a grant from the Supreme Court of Ohio for the Court Technology Project; and
authorizing the Director to enter into one or more contracts with Justice A/V Solutions,
Inc. and other consultants for professional services necessary to implement the grant.
(O 797-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of City Planning to apply for and accept one or more grants from the
US Department of Transportation through their FY 2016 TIGER program; to enter into
contract with Parsons Brinkerhoff, Inc. for grant application services; to amend their
FY 2015 contract to provide additional services; and to apply for and accept gifts, grant,
and other funding from various public and private entities to implement the grant.
(O 806-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Health to apply for and accept a grant from Ohio
Department of Health for Public Health Accreditation; authorizing payment of an initial
fee to the Public Health Accreditation Board necessary to receive accreditation; and other
agreements to implement the grant. (O 807-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1215-1261

. . . . . . . . . . 1215-1262

. . . . . . . . . . 1215-1266

. . . . . . . . . . 1215-1266

Health Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Health to apply for and accept a grant from Ohio
Department of Health for Public Health Accreditation; authorizing payment of an initial
fee to the Public Health Accreditation Board necessary to receive accreditation; and other
agreements to implement the grant. (O 807-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1266
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Public Health to enter into agreement with
African American Male Wellness Walk for the African American Male Health
Expo through the use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 985-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Hemingway Development Llc
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a HUD 108
Empowerment Zone loan from the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development to partially finance the development of an office building located at 10500
Cedar Avenue and other associated costs necessary to redevelop the properties; and
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one or more agreements
with Hemingway Development LLC, or its designee, for the project. (O 799-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1263
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement
with Hemingway Development LLC, or its designee, to provide for tax abatement for
certain real property improvements as an incentive for the development of an office
building located at 10500 Cedar Avenue in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone. (O 800-16) . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1263

Housing and Urban Development (Hud)
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a HUD 108
Empowerment Zone loan from the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development to partially finance the development of an office building located at 10500
Cedar Avenue and other associated costs necessary to redevelop the properties; and
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one or more agreements
with Hemingway Development LLC, or its designee, for the project. (O 799-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1263

Land Reutilization Program
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to transfer Permanent Parcel Nos.
118-06-028, 118-06-029, and 118-06-049 located between East 65th Street and East 66th Street
fronting Euclid Avenue, to the control, possession, and use of the Department of Economic
Development Industrial Commercial Land Bank for future redevelopment. (O 913-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186

Landmark Commission
Designating the 3101 Euclid Avenue Building as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 821-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1266

1283

The City Record

108

August 17, 2016

Lease Agreement
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into an amendment and restatement to a
Lease Agreement with the Cleveland Museum of Art to change certain terms of the lease,
including but not limited to, the term and development issues relating to Case Western
Reserve University’s Greenway Connector Project; and authorizing the Director to lease
certain properties located in Wade Park to the Cleveland Art Museum and Case Western
Reserve University for the purpose of implementing the Project, for a term of ninety-nine
years, with one option to renew, for an additional ninety-nine years. (O 649-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1256
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to lease Docks 28B, 30, and 32, excluding the
warehouses on Docks 30 and 32, to the Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC for
surface parking and staging special event programming for ten Cleveland Browns home
games, any NFL playoff games and up to nine other events a year, for a period of one year.
(O 718-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1261

Liquor Permits
#13501250005. New License Application, D3. Cedar Deli, Inc., 11365 Euclid Ave. (Ward 9).
(F 899-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
#19449310090. Economic Development Transfer Application, D1 D2. Dave’s Supermarket,
Inc., 2700 Carroll Ave. (Ward 3). (F 900-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
#8932938. New License Application, C2. Gee Gee Grocery Co., 968 East 105th St. (Ward 9).
(F 901-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
#935794112444. Stock Application, C1 C2. Walgreen Co., 3415 Clark Ave. (Ward 14).
(F 902-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
#9283393. Transfer of License Application, D2 D2X D3 D6. VIP Beauty Bar LLC, 668 Euclid
Ave. (Ward 3). (F 903-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
#1366552. Transfer of License Application, C2 C2X. Josephine Martha Cerer, 2701 Lorain
Ave. (Ward 3). (F 904-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
#935794103226. Stock Application, C1 C2. Walgreen Co., 6410 Broadway Ave. (Ward 12).
(F 905-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
#6331968. New License Application, C2. Neetu Foods, Inc., 1303 Clark Ave. (Ward 12).
(F 906-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit at 1503 Spring Road, 1st floor. (R 932-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1240
Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 14222 Lorain Avenue,
1st floor and basement. (R 933-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198-1240
Objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X and D3 Liquor Permit at 2301 Broadview Road, 1st floor
and basement (R 934-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198-1240
Objecting to the renewal of a D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 4818-22 Memphis Avenue
and patio. (R 935-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198-1241
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 5200 Memphis Avenue. (R 936-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198-1241
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 6101 Memphis Avenue. (R 937-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1199-1241
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 4301 State Road. (R 938-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1199-1242
Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 4693 State Road, 1st
floor and basement. (R 939-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1199-1242
Objecting to the transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit to 668 Euclid
Avenue, Suite 8. (R 940-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1200-1242
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 870 East 185th Street. (R 941-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1200-1243
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 15222 Waterloo Road. (R 942-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1200-1243
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 15504 Waterloo Road & Gas Pumps.
(R 943-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1201-1243
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 1303 Clark Avenue. (R 944-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1201-1243
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 7020 Harvard Avenue. (R 945-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1201-1244
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 3578 Independence Road. (R 946-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202-1244
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 968 East 105th Street. (R 947-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202-1244
Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 11619 Lorain Avenue, 1st
floor and basement. (R 952-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203-1245
Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 5351-53 Dolloff Road.
(R 953-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203-1246
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 13601 Lorain Avenue. (R 954-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203-1246
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 14939 Puritas Avenue. (R 955-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1204-1246
Objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit at 4282 West 130th Street. (R 956-16) . . . . . . . . . . . 1204-1247
Objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 4625-29 West 130th
Street and patio. (R 957-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1205-1247
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 4050 West 140th Street and basement.
(R 958-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1205-1247
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 7216 Clark Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
(R 959-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1205-1248
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 8808 Detroit Avenue. (R 960-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1205-1248
Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 11213 15 Detroit Avenue,
1st floor, basement and patio. (R 961-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1206-1248
Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 8701 Lake Avenue, 1st floor and
basement. (R 962-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1206-1248
Objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at 7201 Lorain Avenue. (R 963-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1206-1249
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 3021 West 105th Street. (R 964-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1207-1249
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 6506 Fleet Avenue. (R 965-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1207-1249
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 12820 Brookpark Road and patio. (R 966-16) . . . . . . . . . . . 1207-1250

1284

August 17, 2016

The City Record

Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3266 West 117th Street. (R 967-16) . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at 2603 Woodhill Road. (R 971-16) . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 2625 East 55th Street. (R 972-16) . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 3363 East 93rd Street. (R 973-16) . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 4324 Warner Road, 1st floor.
(R 974-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 4703 Pearl Road, 1st floor and
basement. (R 975-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 5275-79 Broadway Avenue, 1st floor
and basement. (R 976-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 7401-05 Central Avenue, 1st floor and
basement. (R 977-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 7902-14 Central Avenue. (R 978-16) . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 11132 Buckeye Road,
P.O. Box 20370. (R 979-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 11526-28 Clifton Boulevard. (R 980-16) .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 2886 Woodhill Road, 1st floor and
basement. (R 981-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at 3111 East 93rd Street. (R 982-16) . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3344 East 116th Street. (R 983-16) . . . .
Objecting to the transfer of location of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 5611 Woodland Avenue.
(R 984-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X Liquor Permit at 4025 East 131st Street. (R 988-16) . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X Liquor Permit at 3904 Martin Luther King Blvd., 1st floor.
(R 989-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 4525 Turney Road. (R 990-16) . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the Liquor Agency Contract located at 12408 Union Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 827-16. (R 948-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at 12408
Union Avenue, Unit A and repealing Resolution No. 828-16 objecting to said permit.
(R 949-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 1201 East 185th Street and repealing
Resolution No. 272-16, objecting to said permit. (R 950-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 3916 East
123d Street, 1st floor only and repealing Resolution No.-164-16 objecting to said permit.
(R 951-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

109
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1208-1250
1208-1250
1208-1250
1208-1251

. . . . . . . . . 1209-1251
. . . . . . . . . 1209-1251
. . . . . . . . . 1209-1252
. . . . . . . . . 1210-1252
. . . . . . . . . 1210-1252
. . . . . . . . . 1210-1253
. . . . . . . . . 1211-1253
. . . . . . . . . 1211-1253
. . . . . . . . . 1211-1253
. . . . . . . . . 1211-1254
. . . . . . . . . 1212-1254
. . . . . . . . . 1212-1254
. . . . . . . . . 1212-1255
. . . . . . . . . 1213-1255
. . . . . . . . . 1202-1245

. . . . . . . . . 1202-1245
. . . . . . . . . 1203-1245

. . . . . . . . . 1203-1245

Municipal Court
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to apply for
and accept a grant from the Supreme Court of Ohio for the Court Technology Project; and
authorizing the Director to enter into one or more contracts with Justice A/V Solutions,
Inc. and other consultants for professional services necessary to implement the grant.
(O 797-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1262
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to enter into
one or more contracts with LOGOS Communications, Inc. dba Black Box Network Services
for professional services necessary to implement the Court’s paperless document
management initiative and related services; and authorizing the employment of one or
more professional consultants to provide related services needed to implement the
Initiative. (O 804-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265

Oath of Office
Oath of Office for James O. Laing, Captain of Fire, City of Cleveland. (F 896-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179

Office of Equal Opportunity
From Office of Equal Opportunity, City of Cleveland. City Resident Utilization Report, July
2016. (F 898-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179

Ohio City
Approving the report of the Assessment Equalization Board on objections concerning
estimated assessments with respect to the continuation and expansion of the Ohio City
Cleveland Business Improvement District and the comprehensive services plan for safety,
maintenance and other services to be provided for the District; determining to proceed
with the plan to provide public services within the District; adopting the assessments;
levying the assessments; and authorizing the City to enter into an agreement with the
Ohio City Improvement Corporation. (O 798-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1262

Ohio Department of Public Health
Authorizing the Director of Public Health to apply for and accept a grant from Ohio
Department of Health for Public Health Accreditation; authorizing payment of an initial
fee to the Public Health Accreditation Board necessary to receive accreditation; and other
agreements to implement the grant. (O 807-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1266

1285

The City Record

110

August 17, 2016

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODoT)
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio
for rehabilitating the Martin Luther King, Jr. bridge over Doan Brook; to apply for and
accept any gifts or grants from any public or private entity; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into any relative agreements; and causing payment of the City’s
share to the State for the cost of the improvement. (O 917-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio to
rehabilitate the St. Casmir Way Bridge over Doan Brook; authorizing any other relative
agreements; and to cause payment to the State for the City’s share of the improvement.
(O 918-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Supporting House Bill 579, in the 131st Ohio General Assembly, to make supplemental
appropriations to the Department of Transportation in order to provide political
subdivisions with funding for critical road maintenance repairs. (R 923-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Ohio General Assembly
Supporting House Bill 579, in the 131st Ohio General Assembly, to make supplemental
appropriations to the Department of Transportation in order to provide political
subdivisions with funding for critical road maintenance repairs. (R 923-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Permits
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the 2016 St. Rocco 5K Run, on September
3, 2016, sponsored by St. Rocco Festival Committee. (O 926-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195-1271
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure
on August 27, 2016, managed by Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 927-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195-1271

Petitions
Authorizing the submission to the electors of the City of Cleveland of a proposal to amend
Section 115-2 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland relating to the Police Review Board.
(O 826-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1268
Authorizing the submission to the electors of the City of Cleveland of an initiative petition
proposing to amend the Charter of the City of Cleveland by enacting new Sections 204
through 214, relating to City of Cleveland Part Time Workers’ Rights. (O 925-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193-1269

Port Control Department
Determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating the storm and
sanitary sewer systems in and around the IX Center and discharge centers, and
constructing infrastructure improvements needed for the rehabilitation; and authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement. (O 700-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1260
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to lease Docks 28B, 30, and 32, excluding the
warehouses on Docks 30 and 32, to the Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC for
surface parking and staging special event programming for ten Cleveland Browns home
games, any NFL playoff games and up to nine other events a year, for a period of one year.
(O 718-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1261
Authorizing refunding and remarketing of airport system revenue bonds; authorizing
supplemental indentures and other agreements related to the bonds; and authorizing and
approving related matters. (O 909-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180

Professional Services
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects and/or City Planning to enter into one or more
contracts with Janet Zweig for professional services necessary for the design, production,
and installation of a yet to be designed public artwork associated with, and installed at,
the new Cleveland Kennel. (O 803-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1264
Authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to enter into
one or more contracts with LOGOS Communications, Inc. dba Black Box Network Services
for professional services necessary to implement the Court’s paperless document
management initiative and related services; and authorizing the employment of one or
more professional consultants to provide related services needed to implement the
Initiative. (O 804-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing material capital
repairs and capital improvements to First Energy Stadium; authorizing one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; and professional services to
design, or in the alternative, to reimburse or accept the gift of design and other services
from the Cleveland Browns. (O 805-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265

Public Improvements
Determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating the storm and
sanitary sewer systems in and around the IX Center and discharge centers, and
constructing infrastructure improvements needed for the rehabilitation; and authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement. (O 700-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1260

1286

August 17, 2016

The City Record

111

Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing material capital
repairs and capital improvements to First Energy Stadium; authorizing one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; and professional services to
design, or in the alternative, to reimburse or accept the gift of design and other services
from the Cleveland Browns. (O 805-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio
for rehabilitating the Martin Luther King, Jr. bridge over Doan Brook; to apply for and
accept any gifts or grants from any public or private entity; authorizing the Director of
Capital Projects to enter into any relative agreements; and causing payment of the City’s
share to the State for the cost of the improvement. (O 917-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Giving consent of the City of Cleveland to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio
to rehabilitate the St. Casmir Way Bridge over Doan Brook; authorizing any other relative
agreements; and to cause payment to the State for the City’s share of the improvement.
(O 918-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189

Public Works
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to enter into an amendment and restatement to a
Lease Agreement with the Cleveland Museum of Art to change certain terms of the lease,
including but not limited to, the term and development issues relating to Case Western
Reserve University’s Greenway Connector Project; and authorizing the Director to lease
certain properties located in Wade Park to the Cleveland Art Museum and Case Western
Reserve University for the purpose of implementing the Project, for a term of ninety-nine
years, with one option to renew, for an additional ninety-nine years. (O 649-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1256

Recognition
Recognition Resolution for Judge Sara J. Harper Street Dedication of “Sara J. Harper Way”
(R 1000-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for Global Ambassadors Language Academy (GALA) (R 1001-16) . .
Recognition Resolution for Family 4 Life Center (R 1002-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for Family 4 Life Summer Entrepreneur for Kids (R 1003-16) . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for John D. Cimperman (R 1004-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for 2016 National Hispanic Heritage Month (R 1005-16) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for Michael (Mickey) Ezzo (R 1006-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for Albert Sardelle (R 1007-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for Salvatore Charles Scherma (R 1008-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognition Resolution for Dick Goddard HB 60 (“Goddard's Law”) (R 999-16) . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1180
1180
1180
1180
1180
1180
1180
1180
1180
1180

Resolution of Support
Supporting House Bill 579, in the 131st Ohio General Assembly, to make supplemental
appropriations to the Department of Transportation in order to provide political
subdivisions with funding for critical road maintenance repairs. (R 923-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192

Safety Department
To amend Sections 630.01 and 630.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No.141-09, passed March 30, 2009, relating to criminal activity
nuisances. (O 665-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1259
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to accept a grant from the United States Department
of Justice for the FY 2014 COPS Hiring Program. (O 796-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1261
To amend Section 675A.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 979-13, passed July 10, 2013, to limit the times during which street
performers may perform in order to minimize excessive noise in the evenings and
mornings for residents. (O 919-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189

Sewers
Determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating the storm and
sanitary sewer systems in and around the IX Center and discharge centers, and
constructing infrastructure improvements needed for the rehabilitation; and authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement. (O 700-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1260

Stadium
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing material capital
repairs and capital improvements to First Energy Stadium; authorizing one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; and professional services to
design, or in the alternative, to reimburse or accept the gift of design and other services
from the Cleveland Browns. (O 805-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1265

1287

The City Record

112

August 17, 2016

Street Vacation
Declaring the intent to vacate a portion of the 1st un-named alley west of West 65th Street and
south of Franklin Avenue. (R 812-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1240

Streets - Name
To add the name David D. Dawson, Sr. Way as a secondary and honorary name to Thames
Avenue. (O 792-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1261
To add the name George and Janet Voinovich Way as a secondary and honorary name to
Schenely Avenue. (O 793-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1261
Designating Griswold Avenue between Kinsman Avenue and East 61st Street with a secondary
and honorary designation of “C. D. Gant Way”. (O 794-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1261
Designating Central Avenue from East 68th Street to East 85th Street with a secondary and
honorary designation of “Stanley Jackson, Sr. Way”. (O 795-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1214-1261
Designating Cedar Avenue between East 36th Street and Stokes Boulevard with a secondary
and honorary designation of “Don King Way”; and repealing Ordinance No. 473-16, passed
April 25, 2016, that designated Shaker Blvd. between East 116th Street and East 121st
Street with a secondary and honorary designation of “Don King Way”. (O 922-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190

Tax Abatement
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement
with Hemingway Development LLC, or its designee, to provide for tax abatement for
certain real property improvements as an incentive for the development of an office
building located at 10500 Cedar Avenue in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone. (O 800-16) . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1263

Taxes
Accepting the amounts and rates as determined by the Cuyahoga County Budget Commission
and authorizing the necessary tax levies and certifying them to the County Fiscal Officer.
(R 907-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191

Utilities Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first options to renew various
contracts for the requirements for services and materials necessary to maintain and repair
pumps, motors, controls, transformers, circuit breakers, switchgear, and appurtenances,
including but not limited to inspection, supplies, repairing and testing for the Division of
Water. (O 910-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first option to renew Contract No.
RCD 2015-11 with the Hach Company to maintain, service, calibrate, refurbish, and test
various scientific and in line process analytical instruments used to monitor the drinking
water purification process. (O 911-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first options to renew Contract No.
RCD 2015-12 with Hach Company and Contract No. RCD 2015-10 with HSQ Technology, A
Corporation, for the requirements to maintain and replace proprietary components of
control systems for the Division of Water. (O 912-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186

Ward 1
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program
through the use of Wards 1 and 6 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 969-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273
Ward 2
Withdrawing objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 3916 East
123d Street, 1st floor only and repealing Resolution No. 164-16 objecting to said permit.
(R 951-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 4324 Warner Road, 1st floor.
(R 974-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X Liquor Permit at 4025 East 131st Street. (R 988-16) . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X Liquor Permit at 3904 Martin Luther King Blvd., 1st
floor. (R 989-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 4525 Turney Road. (R 990-16) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1203-1245

. . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273
. . . . . . . . . . . 1209-1251
. . . . . . . . . . . 1212-1254
. . . . . . . . . . . 1212-1255
. . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1255

Ward 3
#19449310090. Economic Development Transfer Application, D1 D2. Dave’s Supermarket, Inc.,
2700 Carroll Ave. (Ward 3). (F 900-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179

1288

August 17, 2016

The City Record

113

#9283393. Transfer of License Application, D2 D2X D3 D6. VIP Beauty Bar LLC, 668 Euclid
Ave. (Ward 3). (F 903-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
#1366552. Transfer of License Application, C2 C2X. Josephine Martha Cerer, 2701 Lorain
Ave. (Ward 3). (F 904-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure
on August 27, 2016, managed by Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 927-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195-1271
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Near West Side Multi Service Corporation (dba) May Dugan Center
for the Food Distribution Program through the use of Ward 3 Casino Revenue Funds.
(O 930-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre for the Student Theatre Enrichment
Program (STEP) through the use of Wards 3, 6 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds.
(O 931-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
Objecting to the transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit to 668 Euclid
Avenue, Suite 8. (R 940-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1200-1242
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13,
14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Ward 4
Withdrawing objection to the Liquor Agency Contract located at 12408 Union Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 827-16. (R 948-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at 12408
Union Avenue, Unit A and repealing Resolution No. 828-16 objecting to said permit.
(R 949-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13,
14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 2886 Woodhill Road, 1st floor and
basement. (R 981-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at 3111 East 93rd Street. (R 982-16) .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3344 East 116th Street. (R 983-16) . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1202-1245

. . . . . . . . . . . 1202-1245

. . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273
. . . . . . . . . . . 1211-1253
. . . . . . . . . . . 1211-1253
. . . . . . . . . . . 1211-1254

Ward 5
Declaring the intent to vacate a portion of the 1st un named alley west of West 65th Street and
south of Franklin Avenue. (R 812-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1240
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a forgivable loan agreement
with Burten Bell Carr Development, Inc., or its designee, to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance capital, parking lot, and site improvements at Arbor Park
Place located at the southwest corner of East 40th Street and Community College Avenue,
to assist with management of the center, and other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property. (O 914-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Designating Cedar Avenue between East 36th Street and Stokes Boulevard with a secondary
and honorary designation of “Don King Way”; and repealing Ordinance No. 473-16, passed
April 25, 2016, that designated Shaker Blvd. between East 116th Street and East 121st
Street with a secondary and honorary designation of “Don King Way”. (O 922-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 5351-53 Dolloff Road.
(R 953-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1203-1246
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 2625 East 55th Street. (R 972-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1208-1250
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 3363 East 93rd Street. (R 973-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1208-1251
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 5275-79 Broadway Avenue, 1st floor
and basement. (R 976-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1209-1252
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 7401-05 Central Avenue, 1st floor and
basement. (R 977-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1210-1252
Objecting to the transfer of location of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 5611 Woodland Avenue.
(R 984-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1212-1254

Ward 6
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a HUD 108
Empowerment Zone loan from the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development to partially finance the development of an office building located at 10500
Cedar Avenue and other associated costs necessary to redevelop the properties; and
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one or more agreements
with Hemingway Development LLC, or its designee, for the project. (O 799-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1263
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement
with Hemingway Development LLC, or its designee, to provide for tax abatement for
certain real property improvements as an incentive for the development of an office
building located at 10500 Cedar Avenue in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone. (O 800-16) . . . . . . . . . . . 1215-1263

1289

The City Record

114

August 17, 2016

Designating Cedar Avenue between East 36th Street and Stokes Boulevard with a secondary
and honorary designation of “Don King Way”; and repealing Ordinance No. 473-16, passed
April 25, 2016, that designated Shaker Blvd. between East 116th Street and East 121st
Street with a secondary and honorary designation of “Don King Way”. (O 922-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre for the Student Theatre Enrichment
Program (STEP) through the use of Wards 3, 6 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds.
(O 931-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Program
through the use of Wards 1 and 6 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 969-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273
East 85th Street, 2245 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-29-049 — David Brandon Roney (BOC Res. 363-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220
Objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at 2603 Woodhill Road. (R 971-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1208-1250
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 7902-14 Central Avenue. (R 978-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1210-1252
Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 11132 Buckeye Road,
P.O. Box 20370. (R 979-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1210-1253

Ward 7
Designating the 3101 Euclid Avenue Building as a Cleveland Landmark. (O 821-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1266
Authorizing the Director of Community Development to transfer Permanent Parcel Nos.
118-06-028, 118-06-029, and 118-06-049 located between East 65th Street and East 66th Street
fronting Euclid Avenue, to the control, possession, and use of the Department of Economic
Development Industrial Commercial Land Bank for future redevelopment. (O 913-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of parcels along the west side of East 66th Street
between Linwood Avenue and Belvidere Avenue to ‘Single Family’ (1F) Use District, a ‘1’
Height District, and an ‘A’ Height District as identified on the attached map (Map Change
No. 2542). (O 928-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273
Sowinski Avenue, 8226 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-06-071 — Patsy Threat Hewlett (BOC Res. 364-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1220

Ward 8
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with CAMHP Foundation for the Economic Rehabilitation One Neighbor
at a Time Program through the use of Ward 8 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 929-16) . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 870 East 185th Street. (R 941-16) . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 15222 Waterloo Road. (R 942-16) . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 15504 Waterloo Road & Gas Pumps.
(R 943-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 1201 East 185th Street and repealing
Resolution No. 272-16, objecting to said permit. (R 950-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1200-1243
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1200-1243
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1201-1243
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1203-1245

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Ward 9
#13501250005. New License Application, D3. Cedar Deli, Inc., 11365 Euclid Ave. (Ward 9).
(F 899-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
#8932938. New License Application, C2. Gee Gee Grocery Co., 968 East 105th St. (Ward 9).
(F 901-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 968 East 105th Street. (R 947-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202-1244
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Brick City Productions or with its fiscal agent University Circle Inc,
for the Papa Resource and Education Expo through the use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue
Funds. (O 968-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Public Health to enter into
agreement with African American Male Wellness Walk for the African American
Male Health Expo through the use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 985-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Ward 10
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven

1290

August 17, 2016

The City Record

115

Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Ward 11
To amend Sections 630.01 and 630.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No.141-09, passed March 30, 2009, relating to criminal activity
nuisances. (O 665-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with the Detroit
Shoreway Community Development Organization, or its designee, to provide economic
development assistance to partially finance the project costs needed for the redevelopment
of the Variety Theatre Complex located at 11801-11850 Lorain Avenue. (O 802-16) . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 11619 Lorain Avenue, 1st
floor and basement. (R 952-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the City of Cleveland to accept the donation from Ozanne Construction Company
and any assisting company of deconstruction and removal services of the gazebo and
related structures at Cudell Recreation Center; and authorizing the transfer of the
deconstructed structures to the Tamir Rice Foundation, an Ohio nonprofit corporation.
(O 986-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1213-1259

. . . . . . . . . . 1215-1264
. . . . . . . . . . 1203-1245

. . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

. . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Ward 12
Changing the Use and Area Districts of parcels north of Fleet Ave, between E. 49th Street and
E. 52nd Street to a ‘Limited Retail’ District, and a ‘G’ Area District as identified on the
attached map (Map Change No. 2540). (O 822-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit at 1503 Spring Road, 1st floor. (O 932-16). . . . . . .
Objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 1303 Clark Avenue. (R 944-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 7020 Harvard Avenue. (R 945-16) . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 3578 Independence Road. (R 946-16) . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 6506 Fleet Avenue. (R 965-16) . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1216-1267
1197-1273
1201-1243
1201-1244
1202-1244
1207-1249

Ward 13
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Noel Caraballo to encroach
into the public right of way of West-16th Street by installing, using, and maintaining an
asphalt drive. (O 916-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X and D3 Liquor Permit at 2301 Broadview Road, 1st floor
and basement (R 934-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198-1240
Objecting to the renewal of a D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 4818-22 Memphis Avenue
and patio. (R 935-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198-1241
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 5200 Memphis Avenue. (R 936-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198-1241
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 6101 Memphis Avenue. (R 937-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1199-1241
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 4301 State Road. (R 938-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1199-1242
Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 4693 State Road, 1st
floor and basement. (R 939-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1199-1242
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 4703 Pearl Road, 1st floor and
basement. (R 975-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1209-1251

Ward 14
#935794112444. Stock Application, C1 C2. Walgreen Co., 3415 Clark Ave. (Ward 14). (F 902-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the 2016 St. Rocco 5K Run, on September
3, 2016, sponsored by St. Rocco Festival Committee. (O 926-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195-1271
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Ward 15
Authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment to Contract No.
67924 and the Promissory Note with Detroit Shoreway Community Development
Organization, or their designee, for the historical renovation of the Capitol Theatre, to
allow for a deferral of principal and interest from September 1, 2015 until July 31, 2016,
and other contract modifications. (O 915-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 7216 Clark Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
(R 959-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1205-1248
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 8808 Detroit Avenue. (R 960-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1205-1248

1291

The City Record

116

Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 11213-15 Detroit Avenue,
1st floor, basement and patio. (R 961-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 8701 Lake Avenue, 1st floor and
basement. (R 962-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at 7201 Lorain Avenue. (R 963-16) . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 3021 West 105th Street. (R 964-16) . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 11526-28 Clifton Boulevard. (R 980-16)
Authorizing the City of Cleveland to accept the donation from Ozanne Construction Company
and any assisting company of deconstruction and removal services of the gazebo and
related structures at Cudell Recreation Center; and authorizing the transfer of the
deconstructed structures to the Tamir Rice Foundation, an Ohio nonprofit corporation.
(O 986-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

August 17, 2016
. . . . . . . . . . 1206-1248
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1206-1248
1206-1249
1207-1249
1211-1253

. . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Ward 16
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with Cleveland Public Theatre for the Student Theatre Enrichment Program
(STEP) through the use of Wards 3, 6 and 16 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 931-16) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 14222 Lorain Avenue,
1st floor and basement. (R 933-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 13601 Lorain Avenue. (R 954-16) . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 14939 Puritas Avenue. (R 955-16) . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit at 4282 West 130th Street. (R 956-16)
Objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 4625-29 West 130th
Street and patio. (R 957-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 4050 West 140th Street and basement.
(R 958-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 12820 Brookpark Road and patio. (R 966-16) . .
Objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3266 West 117th Street. (R 967-16) . . . .
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 1196-1272
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1198-1240
1203-1246
1204-1246
1204-1247

. . . . . . . . . 1205-1247
. . . . . . . . . 1205-1247
. . . . . . . . . 1207-1250
. . . . . . . . . 1208-1250

. . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Ward 17
Authorizing the Director of the Department of Community Development to enter into
agreement with the Buckeye Shaker Square Development Corporation for the Eleven
Angels Community Garden Project through the use of Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
13, 14, 16 and 17 Casino Revenue Funds. (O 970-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197-1273

Water Division
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first options to renew various
contracts for the requirements for services and materials necessary to maintain and
repair pumps, motors, controls, transformers, circuit breakers, switchgear, and
appurtenances, including but not limited to inspection, supplies, repairing and testing
for the Division of Water. (O 910-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first option to renew Contract No.
RCD 2015-11 with the Hach Company to maintain, service, calibrate, refurbish, and test
various scientific and in line process analytical instruments used to monitor the drinking
water purification process. (O 911-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first options to renew Contract No.
RCD 2015-12 with Hach Company and Contract No. RCD 2015-10 with HSQ Technology, A
Corporation, for the requirements to maintain and replace proprietary components of
control systems for the Division of Water. (O 912-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186

Welcome
Welcome Resolution for Curry Family Reunion (R 1010-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180

Zoning
Changing the Use and Area Districts of parcels north of Fleet Ave, between E. 49th Street and
E. 52nd Street to a ‘Limited Retail’ District, and a ‘G’ Area District as identified on the
attached map (Map Change No. 2540). (O 822-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1216-1267
Changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of parcels along the west side of East 66th Street
between Linwood Avenue and Belvidere Avenue to ‘Single Family’ (1F) Use District, a ‘1’
Height District, and an ‘A’ Height District as identified on the attached map (Map Change
No. 2542). (O 928-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190

Zoning Code
To supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting new Section
337.231, Portable Storage Containers, to regulate use of portable storage containers to
protect the public safety and aesthetics of residential neighborhoods in the City; and
amending Section 327.99, as amended by Ordinance No. 1396-14, passed December 8, 2014,
regarding penalty. (O 440-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1213-1255

1292

