The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

March the Thirtieth, Two Thousand and Sixteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

10

Board of Control

10

Civil Service

12

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

15

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
17

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

18

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

18

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

18

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

19

Committee Meetings

57

Index

57

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Christopher Diehl, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Fred Szabo, Interim Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – ____________, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – _____________, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – Edward Jamison, Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 15C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 14C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael R. Sliwinski – Courtroom 12A
Judge Suzan Marie Sweeney – Courtroom 12C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda
– Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016

Vol. 103

No. 5338

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2015-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson (CHAIR), Dow (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Kazy, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR),
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Kazy, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Mitchell (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Dow, Kelley.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Mitchell, Kelley, Keane,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Polensek, Pruitt.

Kelley
Keane,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 28, 2016
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:02 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Anthony
Brancatelli, Joe Cimperman, Phyllis
E. Cleveland, Kevin Conwell, Brian
J. Cummins, TJ Dow, Jeffrey D.
Johnson, Brian Kazy, Kevin J. Kelley, Mamie J. Mitchell, Michael D.
Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack
Reed, and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Edward W.
Rybka, Chief of Education Monyka
S. Price, Media Relations Director
Dan Williams, Chief of Sustainability Jenita McGowan, Chief of Public
Affairs Natoya Walker-Minor, and
Directors Langhenry, Dumas, Davis,
Szabo, Spronz, McGrath, Cox, West,
Nichols, Griffin, Collier, Fumich,
Ambroz and Burrows.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Cimperman, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Cleveland.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
COMMUNICATIONS
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Kazy, Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Kazy, Reed.

File No. 386-16.
Department of Finance
Division of Treasury
Statement of Cash Management
and Investment Policy
Effective March 27, 2015

465

Purpose
The purpose of this document is
to identify the policy that will govern the investment activities of the
Treasurer’s Office of the City of
Cleveland. This policy has been
adopted by, and, if necessary, will
be revised on an annual basis by,
the Director of Finance.
This policy is designed to ensure
prudent
management
of
public
funds, conformance to Chapter 178
of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, availability of
operating and capital funds when
needed, and an investment return
competitive with comparable funds
and financial market indices.
All participants in the investment
process shall act responsibly as custodians of the public trust. Investment officials shall recognize that
the investment portfolio is subject
to public review and evaluation. The
overall program shall be designed
and managed with a degree of professionalism that is worthy of the
public trust.
Scope of the Investment Policy
This policy applies to the investment of all moneys of the City of
Cleveland under the custody and/or
control of the Division of Treasury.
Any practice not clearly authorized
under this policy is prohibited. The
guidance set forth herein is to be
strictly followed by all those responsible for any aspect of the management or administration of these
funds.
The City’s investments shall be
segregated into distinct portfolios,
including portfolios for the General
Fund, and the Divisions of Water,
Airport, Utilities, Cemeteries, Safety,
and Railroads. Total Average Portfolio, as defined in this policy, shall
mean the average of the month-end
market values for the prior twelve
(12) month period of an individual
portfolio.
The City of Cleveland bond proceeds shall be invested in the eligible securities as established by the
applicable bond indentures.
Investment Objectives
All Portfolios shall be managed to
accomplish the following hierarchy
of objectives:
Preservation of Principal – The
single most important objective of
the City of Cleveland investment
program is the preservation of principal of those funds within the Portfolio.
Maintenance of Liquidity – The
Portfolio shall be managed in such
a manner that assures that funds
are available as needed to meet
those immediate and/or future operating requirements of the City of
Cleveland.

The City Record

4
Maximize Return – The Portfolio
shall be managed in such a fashion
as to attain a market-average rate
of return throughout budgetary and
economic cycles, within the context
and parameters set forth by objectives 1 and 2 above.
Delegation of Authority
The Treasurer is responsible for
the prudent investment of the City
of Cleveland Treasury and shall
oversee the establishment of investment procedures consistent with this
policy. Such procedures shall include
explicit delegation of authority to
persons responsible for investment
transactions. No person may engage
in an investment transaction except
as provided under the terms of this
policy and the procedures established by the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall be responsible for all
trades undertaken, and shall establish a system of controls to regulate
the activities of subordinate officials and shall exercise control over
that staff. Investment staff shall be
bonded in amounts appropriate to
levels of responsibility and portfolio
characteristics.
The City’s Internal Auditor will
review the investment program to
ensure compliance with this policy.
Standard of Prudence
The standard of prudence to be
applied to the investment of the City
of Cleveland shall be the industry
standard “Prudent Investor Rule”,
which states:
“Investments shall be made with
judgment and care, under circumstances then prevailing which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not
for speculation, but for investment,
considering the probable safety of
their capital as well as the probable
income to be derived.”
Treasury staff acting in accordance with this policy or any other
written procedures pertaining to the
administration and management of
the City of Cleveland and who exercise the proper due diligence shall
be relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or market price changes, provided that these deviations are
reported immediately to the Treasurer and that appropriate action is
taken to control and prevent any
further adverse developments.
Ethics and Conflict of Interest
Employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution
and management of the investment
program, or that could impair their
ability to make impartial decisions.
Further, no employee involved in
the investment process shall use the
authority to influence of office or
employment to secure anything of
value or the promise or offer of anything of value that would create an
improper influence upon the public
official or employee with respect to
that person’s duties.
Employees and investment officials shall comply fully with the
reporting and disclosure requirements of Chapter 102 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Authorized Instruments
The Treasurer is authorized
invest the funds of the City

to
of

March 30, 2016

Cleveland
in
instruments
as
described in section 178.12 of the
Codified Ordinances as summarized
and restricted below:
A. U.S. Treasury Obligations. United States Treasury bills, notes, or
any other obligation or security
issued by the United States Treasury or any other obligation guaranteed as to principal and interest
by the United States.
B. Federal Agency Obligations.
Bonds, notes, debentures, or other
obligations or securities issued by
any federal government agency or
instrumentality.
C. State and Municipal Bonds and
Notes. Bonds and notes of the State
of Ohio, and any municipal corporation, village, county, township, or
other political subdivision of Ohio
for which the full faith and credit
of the subdivision is pledged, so
long as such subdivision has not
defaulted in the payment of principal or interest on its bonds or notes
within the last ten (10) years.
D. State Pool. State of Ohio Local
Agency
Investment
Pool
(STAR
Ohio)
authorized
under
section
135.45 of the Ohio Revised Code.
E. Bank Deposits. Time certificates of deposit (not to exceed one
[1] year) or savings or deposit
accounts in an eligible institution as
defined in Chapter 178 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland. Collateralization is required on
all deposits of City funds as stated
in Chapter 178 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland.
F. U.S. Government money market
mutual funds. Issued by open ended
companies
registered
investment
with the SEC, with an average
maturity of one hundred twenty
(120) days or less, which have the
objective of maintaining a constant
net asset value per share, and which
invest exclusively in U.S. Treasury
Obligations, Federal Agency Obligations, and repurchase agreements
secured by such obligations.
G. Repurchase Agreements. Specific agreements shall not exceed a
term of one (1) year with any eligible depository or designated securities
broker/dealer
which
has
entered into a master repurchase
agreement
pursuant
to
Codified
Ordinance Section 178.12, division
(c), under the terms of which agreement the City Treasurer purchases
for the City, and such eligible depository or securities broker/dealer
agrees
to
unconditionally
repurchase, any of the securities listed in
Section
178.12,
divisions
(b)(1),
(b)(2), or (b)(3), of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland.
Diversification
Each Portfolio shall be structured
to diversify investments to reduce
the risk of loss resulting from overconcentration of assets in a specific
maturity, a specific issuer or a specific type of security. The maximum
percentage of the Total Average
Portfolio permitted in each security
is as follows:
A. U.S. Treasury 100%
B. Federal Agency
(Fixed Rate)
100%
C. Federal Agency
(Callable)
55%
D. Certificates of
Deposit
25%
E. Repurchase
Agreements
25%

466

maximum
maximum
maximum
maximum
maximum

F. State Bonds
and Notes
10%
G. Municipal Bonds
10%
and Notes
H. STAR Ohio
75%
I. Money Market
Mutual Funds
75%

maximum
maximum
maximum
maximum

Each Portfolio will be further
diversified to limit the exposure to
any one issuer. No more than 2% of
the Total Average Portfolio will be
invested in the securities of any single issuer with the following exceptions:
U.S. Government
Obligations
100% maximum
Money Market
Mutual Funds
10% maximum
Repurchase Agreements
Counterparties
5% maximum
Maximum Maturity
Maintenance of adequate liquidity
to meet the cash flow needs of the
City is essential. Accordingly, each
Portfolio will be structured in a
manner that ensures sufficient cash
is available to meet anticipated liquidity needs. Selection of investment
maturities must be consistent with
the cash requirements in order to
avoid the forced sale of securities
prior to maturity.
Assets will be invested in permitted investments with a stated maturity of no more than five (5) years
from the date of purchase unless the
security is matched to a specific
obligation or debt of the City. To
control the volatility of the assets,
the Treasurer of the City will determine a duration target, not to
exceed three (3) years.
Notwithstanding these limitations,
in no case will the assets in any
Portfolio be invested in securities
with
a
term
to
maturity
that
exceeds the expected disbursement
date of those funds.
Prohibited
Investments
and
Investment Practices
The Treasurer is expressly prohibited from the following investments and investment practices.
This is not an exclusive list.
1. Short sales (selling a specific
security before it has been legally
purchased);
2. Investment in complex derivatives such as range notes, dual
index notes, inverse floating rate
notes and deleveraged notes, or
notes linked to lagging indices or to
long-term indices;
3. Collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) and real estate mortgage
investment
conduits
(REMICs);
4. Investing in any security not
specifically permitted by this Policy.
Monitoring
and
Adjusting
the
Portfolio
Those responsible for the day-today management of the Portfolios
will routinely monitor the contents
of each Portfolio, the available markets and the relative values of competing instruments, and will adjust
each Portfolio as necessary to meet
the
investment
objectives
listed
above. It is recognized and understood
that
this
non-speculative
active
management
of
Portfolio
holdings may cause a loss on the
sale of an owned investment. It is
the policy of the City of Cleveland
to charge any such loss against the

March 30, 2016
interest income account during the
month in which the loss was realized.
The Division of Financial Reporting & Control, on a monthly basis,
allocates
the
net
income/losses
earned
on
investments
of
pooled/commingled funds. The earnings are allocated based on each
participating fund’s cash balance in
proportion to total pooled/commingled cash.
Internal Controls
The City Treasurer is responsible
for monitoring a system of internal
controls governing the administration and management of the Portfolio which include a review of all
investment activity, trade reconciliation, and targeting cash balances.
Such controls are designed to prevent and control losses of the City
funds arising from fraud, employee
error, misrepresentation by third
parties, unanticipated changes in
markets,
or
imprudent
financial
actions by any personnel. The internal controls address: control of collusion, separation of duties, separating transaction authority from
accounting and record keeping, custodial safekeeping, clear delegation
of authority, written confirmation of
telephone transactions, minimizing
the number of authorized investments officials and documentation
of investment transactions.
Eligible Banks and Broker/Dealers
The Director of Finance will
establish and the Treasurer will
maintain a list of eligible brokers,
dealers, and banks with which
investment
transactions
can
be
made, as described in Section 178.11
of the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland. Qualified firms
will be limited to “primary” dealers
and other dealers that qualify under
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital rule) that are registered with
the Ohio Department of Commerce
to do business in the State of Ohio.
All financial institutions and broker
dealers must provide the following
information, on an annual basis:
1. Sworn statement pledging to
adhere to “Capital Adequacy Standards”
2. Annual financial statements for
the most recent year showing the
amount of liquid capital
3. A written statement from a certified public accountant certifying
no weakness in the internal systems
of controls of the dealer or broker
were found
4. A completed “Broker/Dealer
Request for Information” and all
documentation required by Section
178.12 of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland.
Preference will be given to banks
and broker/dealers who are headquartered or maintain a presence in
the City of Cleveland.
Financial institutions and broker/dealers will be required to comply with this policy and to pledge
to offer for sale only appropriate
securities.
Competitive Selection of Investment Instruments
It will be the policy of the Treasurer to transact all security purchases/sales only with approved
financial institutions through a competitive process. The City shall

The City Record
accept the offer which (a) has the
highest rate of return within the
maturity required; and (b) optimizes
the investment objective of the overall portfolio. When selling a security, the Treasurer will select the bid
that generates the highest sale
price.
fixed
price
Federal
Primary
Agency offerings may be purchased
from
the
list
of
qualified
broker/dealers without competitive
solicitation.
In making investment decisions,
all other things being equal and
subject to compliance with any
applicable Internal Revenue Code
for
bond
proceeds,
requirements
investment
in
corporations
and
financial institutions doing business
in the City of Cleveland will be
given preference over other investment options.
Safekeeping and Custody
All
investment
securities
purchased by the Treasurer or held as
collateral on deposits or investments
shall be held in third-party safekeeping at the Federal Reserve
Bank or at a secured and insured
depository as required by Chapter
178 of the City of Cleveland Codified
Ordinance and Section 113.05 of the
Ohio Revised Code.
All securities in the Portfolio
shall be held in the name of the
Treasurer of the City of Cleveland
and will be free and clear of any
lien. Further, all investment transactions will be conducted on a delivery-vs.-payment basis. The depository shall issue a safekeeping receipt
to the Treasurer listing the specific
instrument, rate, maturity and other
pertinent information.
Appropriate
Treasury
officials
and representatives of the depository responsible for, or in any manner
involved with, the safekeeping and
custody process of the City of Cleveland shall be bonded in such a fashion as to protect the City from losses from malfeasance and misfeasance.
Performance Standards
The investment portfolios shall be
designed and managed with the
objective of obtaining a market rate
of return throughout budgetary and
economic cycles, commensurate with
the investment risk constraints and
cash flows needs of the City.
Reporting
The City Treasury shall maintain
accurate,
complete,
and
timely
records of all investment activities.
Each business day, the Treasurer
shall provide the Commissioner of
Accounts and the City Controller a
sworn statement (Daily Treasurer’s
Report) showing the total amount
deposited in and withdrawn from
each depository from the preceding
business day. Within fifteen (15)
business days of the end of the
month, the City Treasurer shall submit an investment report to the
Director of Finance. This report
shall include: (i.) a listing of the
existing
portfolios
in
terms
of
investment securities, book value,
maturity date, return, market value,
and other features deemed relevant,
(ii.) a listing of all transactions executed during the month. The City
Treasurer will also prepare annual
reports in sufficient detail to provide full disclosure of all investment
activities to the Director of Finance.

467

5
Conflict of Law
In the event that any portion of
this policy is in conflict with any
City, State, or Federal law, that law
will prevail.
Investment Policy Effective Date
This policy is adopted this 27th
day of March 2015 and shall remain
in effect until rescinded or amended
by the Director of Finance.
__________________________________
James Hartley
Acting Director of Finance
File No. 387-16.
From Director Michael McGrath,
Department of Public Safety, City of
Cleveland. Notice of grant acceptance of $35,000 from the Helen M.
Fonda Trust for the Division of Animal Care and Control. Received.
File No. 388-16.
From Director Michael McGrath,
Department of Public Safety, City of
Cleveland. Notice of gift acceptance
of a cargo truck from the Cleveland
Police Foundation for the Division
of
Police/Bureau
of
Community
Policing. Received.
File No. 395-16.
From Office of Equal Opportunity,
City of Cleveland. City Resident Utilization
Report,
February
2016.
Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 389-16.
RE: #8871380. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2 D6. 3519
Enterprises, Inc., 3519 West 117th
Street (Ward 11). Received.
File No. 390-16.
RE: #4421010. New License Application, C2. KA Florist Ltd., 10664
Carnegie
Avenue
(Ward
6).
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res.
No.
398-16
McCrary-Moxey.

—

Wyleeia

Res. No. 399-16 — Anne Theresa
Benesh.
Res. No. 400-16 — Hubert Pelham
Baker, Sr.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 401-16 — Dyngus Day
Cleveland.
Res. No. 402-16 — Raymond Bobgan.
Res. No. 404-16 — Joe Cimperman.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 381-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 74-16, passed February 1,
2016, relating to accepting the gift of
Cisco WiFi equipment, access points
with mounting brackets, and licenses
for the Cisco Wireless Controller.

6
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 74-16,
passed February 1, 2016, are amended
to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to accept
a gift from Presidio Networked Solutions, Inc. of Cisco WiFi equipment,
access points with mounting brackets, and licenses for the Cisco Wireless Controller.
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to accept a gift
of Cisco WiFi equipment and lighting, up to fifteen (15) access points
with mounting brackets, and licenses
for the Cisco Wireless Controller,
from Presidio Networked Solutions,
Inc.
(“Presidio”),
valued
at
$209,805.00.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Presidio to effectuate
the gift and the agreement shall
include, but not be limited to, terms
that provide warranties to the City
and indemnification of the City for
infringement and other potential
claims.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
74-16, passed February 1, 2016, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 382-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of implementing a sustainable roofing system and related
projects; authorizing the Director of
Port Control to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, the unique design, time,
budgetary, or other material elements
of this project can benefit from the
special care, coordination, and expeditiousness possible by performance
of both the professional design services and the construction under a
design-build approach contract with a
single entity; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of implementing
a sustainable roofing system and
related projects (the “Improvement”),
for the Department of Port Control, by
one or more design-build or engineerprocure-construct contracts duly let
to the person, firm, or corporation or
combination of them submitting the
best proposal, taking into consideration the engineering and design, the

The City Record
construction method, the proposed
design and construction costs, the
total life-cycle costs, the qualifications of the proposed design professional and construction firm, and the
other objectives of the Improvement.
The selection of the person, firm, or
corporation to design and construct
the Improvement shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified and available persons, firms, or corporations, as may be
determined by the Director of Port
Control after making a full and complete canvass for the purpose of compiling the list. The Board of Control
shall fix the total compensation to be
paid for all design and construction
and procurement necessary for the
Improvement. The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director
of Port Control, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
the Director of Port Control is authorized to execute all documents and
pay all fees necessary to acquire any
real estate interests needed for the
Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to apply and pay
for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
Improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 114, 60 SF 126, 60
SF 141, from the fund or funds to
which are credited the proceeds from
the sale of future bonds, if issued for
this purpose, and from passenger
facility charges, if authorized for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 3001, RL
2016-15.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 383-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more Concession
Agreements for the operation of a
food and beverage concession at
Collinwood Athletic Complex, for the
Department of Public Works, for a
period of one year with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Public
Works is authorized to enter into one

468

March 30, 2016
or more Concession Agreements on
the basis of competitive proposals for
the operation of a food and beverage
concession at Collinwood Athletic
Complex for a period of one year with
two one-year options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Works. The selection of the concessionaire or concessionaires shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Public
Works. The concession fee to be paid
to the City shall be fixed by the Board
of Control.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 384-16.
By Council Members Conwell, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Northeast Ohio
Neighborhood Health Services, Inc.,
or its designee, to provide for a tax
abatement for certain real property
improvements as an incentive to redevelop the East Side Market into suitable space for subleasing to a grocery
store with the sale of fresh meat and
produce, located at the corner of East
105th Street and St. Clair Avenue in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, by letter dated November
18, 2015, the City provided the Cleveland Metropolitan School District
(“CMSD”) with a notice of proposed
tax exemptions required by the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council
designated an area, which is in the
City of Cleveland and described in
File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 156814, passed December 8, 2014, this
Council changed the maximum term
of tax abatements from ten to fifteen
years, as now allowed under Ohio
law; and
Whereas, in August 1995 and February 2015, the Director of Development of the State of Ohio determined
that the Zone contains the characteristics described in division (A) of Section 5709.61 of the Revised Code and
certified the area as an “Urban Jobs
and Enterprise Zone” under Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code; and
Whereas, Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., or its
designee, (the “Enterprise”) has proposed to redevelop the East Side Market into suitable space for subleasing
to a grocery store with the sale of
fresh meat and produce, located at the
corner of East 105th Street and St.
Clair Avenue in the Cleveland Area
Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that it would be at a
competitive disadvantage operating
at this location if taxes on certain real

March 30, 2016
property improvements were not
abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, safety, property, and
welfare and that its enactment is a
necessary prerequisite to providing
immediate assistance to create and
preserve
job
opportunities
and
advance and promote commercial and
economic development in the City of
Cleveland, and the assistance is
immediately necessary or jobs will be
lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the application of the Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives
on the basis that the Enterprise is
qualified by financial responsibility
and business experience to create and
preserve employment opportunities in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone
and to improve the economic climate
of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement with the Enterprise to provide
for a fifteen-year, seventy-five percent (75%) tax abatement for certain
real property improvements commencing the first year for which the
real property improvements would
first be taxable were that property
not exempted from taxation; the
abatement shall be subject to annual
review of the Tax Incentive Review
Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the tax
abatement shall be in accordance
with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 384-16-A. These
terms shall not be amended, nor shall
the tax abatement be assignable or
transferable to any entity, without
the prior legislative authorization by
Cleveland City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code and the funds are appropriated
for the purposes listed in Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 305.
Section 5. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That any contract authorized by this legislation must require
the recipient of financial assistance
to work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts. The
identification process shall place special emphasis on the hard to employ,
including people who are disabled
and people who have been convicted
of or who have pled guilty to a criminal offense which is unrelated to the
duties of the job opportunity.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

The City Record
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 385-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
exercise the first option to renew on
contracts with Caver Platform LLC,
PMI Group, Inc., and LCI Construction, Inc. to provide landscape materials, supplies, and services, including
labor and materials needed to maintain, test, install, replace, improve,
restore, and refurbish landscaping
and tree lawns located at City-owned
or leased facilities and other City
right-of-ways.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 863-13, passed August
14, 2013, the Director of Public Utilities entered into Contract Nos. RC
2015-42, RC 2014-74, and RC 2014-80
with Caver Platform LLC, PMI Group,
Inc., and LCI Construction, Inc. to provide landscape materials, supplies,
and services, including labor and
materials needed to maintain, test,
install, replace, improve, restore, and
refurbish landscaping and tree lawns
located at City-owned or leased Public Utility facilities and other City
right-of-ways, for the Divisions of
Water, Water Pollution Control, and
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 863-13
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
these contracts; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to exercise
the first option to renew Contract No.
RC 2015-42 with Caver Platform LLC,
Contract No. RC 2014-74 with PMI
Group, Inc., and Contract No. RC 201480 with LCI Construction, Inc. each
for an additional year and in the
approximate aggregate amount of
$650,000 for the requirements for an
additional year to provide landscape
materials, supplies, and services,
including labor and materials needed
to maintain, test, install, replace,
improve, restore, and refurbish landscaping and tree lawns located at
City-owned or leased Public Utility
facilities and other City right-ofways, for the Divisions of Water,
Water Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities.
Section 2. That this ordinance constitutes the additional legislative
authority required by Ordinance No.
863-13 to exercise these options. (RQN
2002, RL 2016-5)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.

469

7
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 397-16.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution opposing
the discontinuation of parts of the bus
service along the #81 bus line by the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority.
Whereas, the Greater Cleveland
Transit
Authority
Regional
(GCRTA) lacks funding to maintain
current service levels so is proposing
a 4% service reduction starting in
August 2016; and
Whereas, proposed changes will
impact bus route #81, travelling
through the Tremont area of Cleveland; and
Whereas, GCRTA proposes cancelling service to Lakeview Terrace
and limiting service to the West 7th
stop on the #81 bus line; and
Whereas, this will negatively
impact the Lakeview Terrace community and create hardship for those residents by impeding their access to
affordable transit; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes
the discontinuation of parts of the bus
service along the #81 bus line by the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Joe Calabrese, Chief
Executive Officer and General Manager, the Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 396-16.
By Council Members Dow, Brancatelli and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and Capital Projects to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. CT 8006, NF 2013-016 with UCAA
LIMITED, an Ohio limited liability
company, designee of The Finch
Group, Inc. relating to the redevelopment of a portion of the Upper Chester
Target Area; and to authorize a development agreement with Case Western Reserve University, the Cleveland
Clinic, or their collective designees,
regarding the sale and redevelopment
of additional parcels located in the
Upper Chester Target Area.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 169712, passed December 3, 2012, this
Council authorized the Directors of
Community Development and Capital
Projects to enter into a Development
Agreement with UCAA LIMITED, an
Ohio
limited
liability
company,
designee of The Finch Group, Inc.

8
(“UCAA”), Contract No. CT 8006, NF
2013-016, regarding the redevelopment of parcels (“Part 1-3 Parcels”)
located within the Upper Chester Target Area; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 146613, passed November 25, 2013, this
Council authorized an amendment to
Contract No. CT 8006, NF 2013-016; and
Whereas, the parties wish to amend
the Development Agreement with
UCAA to incorporate additional project changes regarding timing, location, and land use; and
Whereas, the City wishes to enter
into a Development Agreement with
Case Western Reserve University, the
Cleveland Clinic, or their collective
designees, regarding the sale and
redevelopment of up to six parcels
also located within the Upper Chester
Target Area (“Part 4 Parcels”); and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Community Development and Capital
Projects are authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. CT
8006, NF 2013-016 between the City
and UCAA, relating to the redevelopment of the Part 1-3 Parcels of the
Upper Chester Target Area. The
amendment shall include, but not be
limited to, an updated redevelopment
plan relating to the sale and redevelopment of the Part 1-3 Parcels. An
updated executive summary and target area map are placed in File No.
1697-12-E.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to any section of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into a development agreement with
Case Western Reserve University, the
Cleveland Clinic, or their collective
designees, for the acquisition, disposition, and private redevelopment of the
following City-owned parcels, known
as the Part 4 Parcels, in furtherance
of the redevelopment of the Upper
Chester Target Area: 119-08-080, 11908-081, 119-08-082, 119-08-083, 119-08-084,
119-08-085.
Section 3. That the terms of the
development agreement as outlined
in the file mentioned above is
approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, it
is found and determined that the Part
4 Parcels are no longer needed for the
City’s use.
Section 5. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchase and Supplies is
authorized to sell the Part 4 Parcels
which are currently in the City’s Land
Reutilization Program
Section 6. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to sell the abovedescribed Part 4 Parcels To CWRU at
a price not less than fair market value
as determined by the Board of Control, taking into account all restrictions, reversionary interests and similar encumbrances placed by the City
of Cleveland in the deed of conveyance.

The City Record
Section 7. That the conveyances
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The deeds shall
contain necessary provisions, including restrictive reversionary interests
as may be specified by the Board of
Control or Director of Law, which
shall protect the parties as their
respective interests require and shall
specifically contain a provision
against the erection of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted project-related identifications
signs.
Section 8. That all conveyance of
land authorized in this ordinance
shall be for the sole purpose of the
construction of a dental Clinic by
Case Western Reserve University, the
Cleveland Clinic, or their collective
designees,.
Section 9.That the dental clinic to
be constructed on these parcels shall
not exceed 150,000 square feet.
Section 10. That the dental clinic
shall not exceed three stories in
height.
Section 11. That any deviation from
sections 8, 9, and 10 will require additional legislative authority.
Section 12. That the amendment
and development agreement with
Case Western Reserve University, the
Cleveland Clinic, or their collective
designees, shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
14. Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 391-16.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New D3A Liquor Permit at 1330
Old River Road, 1st floor.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a New D3A Liquor
Permit at East End Cleveland, LLC,
DBA East End, 1330 Old River Road,
1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permit Number 2402245; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and

470

March 30, 2016
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New D3A
Liquor Permit at East End Cleveland,
LLC, DBA East End, 1330 Old River
Road, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permit Number 2402245; and requests
the Superintendent of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
14. Nays 0.
Res. No. 392-16.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 5110
Clark Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Tuhin, Inc. & Drive Up Window, 5110 Clark Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44102, Permit Number 9089530;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to

March 30, 2016
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Tuhin, Inc. & Drive
Up Window, 5110 Clark Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permit Number
9089530; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
14. Nays 0.
Res. No. 393-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 9815
Madison Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at MN9815, Inc., DBA Mega
Convenient
Mart,
9815
Madison
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permit Number 6071812; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and

The City Record
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at MN9815, Inc., DBA
Mega Convenient Mart, 9815 Madison
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permit Number 6071812; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
14. Nays 0.
Res. No. 394-16.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C2 Liquor
Permit at 7038 Linwood Avenue,
excluding 2nd floor and repealing
Resolution No. 273-16, objecting to
said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
New C2 Liquor Permit at Annette
Green, DBA Green’s Linwood Deli,
7038 Linwood Avenue, excluding 2nd
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 33502090005 by Resolution No. 273-16 adopted by the Council
on February 29, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a

471

9
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C2 Liquor Permit at Annette Green,
DBA Green’s Linwood Deli, 7038 Linwood Avenue, excluding 2nd floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 33502090005, be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 273-16, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
14. Nays 0.
Res. No. 403-16.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 965 East 105th Street, 1st floor
and repealing Resolution No. 1336-15
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to Tays & Sen, Inc.,
DBA Moosies Mart, 965 East 105th
Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44108, Permanent Number 8827843 by
Resolution No. 1336-15 adopted by the
Council on October 26, 2015; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to Tays & Sen, Inc.,
DBA Moosies Mart, 965 East 105th
Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44108, Permanent Number 8827843, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1336-15, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
14. Nays 0.

The City Record

10
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED

THE CALENDAR

Ord. No. 193-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland to the
Ohio Department of Transportation to
install traffic signals at the eastbound I-90 exit ramp to Chester
Avenue in the City of Cleveland and
operate the ramp as part of the existing signalized intersection of East
30th Street and Chester Avenue; and
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into any relative
agreements.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.

The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:

Ord. No. 255-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more contracts with
City Year to perform community service work and to collaborate with various non-profit agencies.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Services and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 367-16.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to add the
name “James A. Garfield Way” as a
secondary name to Euclid Avenue
between Coltman Road and Lakeview
Road.
Approved
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Cimperman, the absences of Council
Member Dona Brady, Kenneth L.
Johnson and Martin J. Keane are
hereby authorized.
Seconded by
Council Member Cleveland.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:30 p.m. to meet on Monday, April
4, 2016, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
March 23, 2016
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, March 23, 2016
at 10:35 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.
Directors
Langhenry,
Present:
Dumas,
Davis,
Interim
Director
Szabo, Directors Cox, McGrath, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director West, Directors Nichols,
and
Acting
Director
Fumich,
Vanover.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Others: Tiffany White, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
Melissa Burrows, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 121-16.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by Dominion Products and Services, Inc. under Contract No. 69444 for professional services necessary to develop, market,
implement and manage a Water and
Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan
Program, for a period of five years,
with one option to renew for an
additional five-year period, for the
Divisions of Water and Water Pollution Control, Department of Public
Utilities, is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Mayes and Sons Plumbing
Company (CSB)
$150,000.00
0.00%
Brown Landscaping LLC
(CSB)
$ 20,000.00
0.00%
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Interim
Director
Szabo, Directors Cox, McGrath, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director West, Directors Nichols,
Fumich,
and
Acting
Director
Vanover.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 122-16.
By Director Davis.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1080-99, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on May 22,
2000, and Board of Control Resolution No. 808-00, adopted December 6,
2000, the City of Cleveland, through
the Director of Public Utilities,

472

March 30, 2016
entered into City Contract No. 57651
with Montgomery Watson Americas,
Inc. to acquire implementation consultant services for the citywide
Geographic Information System Program, for the various divisions of
City government; and
Whereas, the citywide Geographic
Information System runs on the
Environmental
Systems
Research
Institute, Inc. (ESRI) software platform, and support, maintenance, and
licenses must be renewed annually
for proper use and support of the
citywide GIS software and applications; and
Whereas, division (C) of Section
181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (“C.O.”) authorizes a director to execute one or
more license agreements for software needed to implement or maintain a previously acquired software
system directly with software licensing firm; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director to
enter into an agreement with a software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
maintain
the
software
system,
including but not limited to maintenance, repair, upgrades, enhancements and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
Environmental
Systems
Research
Institute, Inc. (ESRI) to renew the
necessary software licenses and to
obtain the professional services necessary to continue support and
maintenance for the citywide GIS
software and applications for one
year starting June 1, 2016; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid for license fees
and for maintenance and support
services to be performed under the
contract with Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI)
for the one-year term starting June
1, 2016 shall not exceed $197,180.00.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Interim
Director
Szabo, Directors Cox, McGrath, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director West, Directors Nichols,
Fumich,
and
Acting
Director
Vanover.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 123-16.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
642-15, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on July 22, 2015,
Thunder
Tech,
Inc.
dba
thunder::tech is selected from a list
of firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities as the firm to be
employed by contract to provide professional consulting services for a
Plastic Marine Debris Social Marketing Campaign, for the City of
Cleveland.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with

The City Record

March 30, 2016
Thunder Tech, Inc. dba thunder:
:tech based upon its revised proposal dated February 29, 2016, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide for
furnishing of professional services
described in the proposal, for an
aggregate
fee
not
exceeding
$43,000.00, and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultant by Thunder Tech, Inc.
dba thunder::tech for the above-menprofessional
services
is
tioned
approved:
SUBCONSULTANT

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Ohio Sea Grant College
Program

$10,000.00
23.26%

Directors
Langhenry,
Yeas:
Dumas,
Davis,
Interim
Director
Szabo, Directors Cox, McGrath, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director West, Directors Nichols,
Fumich,
and
Acting
Director
Vanover.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 124-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 812-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 6, 2008, the City through its
Director of Port Control, entered
into Contract No. 68789 with Kronos
Incorporated to provide professional
services necessary to upgrade the
time and attendance workforce system, including software necessary
for the upgrades, and installation,
design,
training,
implementation
and testing for the Department of
Port Control; and
Whereas, when a director has
been authorized to contract with a
software developer or vendor, division (d) of Section 181.102 C.O.
authorizes the director of the department for which the software is
acquired to enter into an agreement
with the software vendor for professional
services
necessary
to
implement or maintain the software
system, including but not limited to
maintenance,
repair,
upgrades,
enhancements, training and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O. the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
Kronos
Incorporated
to
provide
maintenance, technical support and
other related services, on an as-needed basis, for timeclocks and software, for a period of one year starting upon execution; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid Kronos Incorporated
to
provide
maintenance,
technical support and other related
services for timeclocks and software, shall not exceed $10,000.00.

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Interim
Director
Szabo, Directors Cox, McGrath, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director West, Directors Nichols,
Fumich,
and
Acting
Director
Vanover.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 125-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 73-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
April 9, 2012, the City through its
Director of Port Control, entered
into Contract No. PS2012*221 with
MCPc, Inc. n/k/a Logicalis, Inc. to
provide professional services necessary to design, develop and implement a converged communications
system, including, but not limited to,
installation, integration, migration,
testing,
training
and
providing
maintenance, technical support and
other related services, acquisition of
equipment, hardware, software and
licenses and/or development necessary to update, upgrade, enhance,
interface
and
integrate
various
information technology systems and
Whereas, when a director has
been authorized to contract with a
software developer or vendor, division (d) of Section 181.102 CO. authorizes the director of the department
for which the software is acquired
to enter into an agreement with the
software vendor for professional services necessary to implement or
the
software
system,
maintain
including but not limited to maintenance, repair, upgrades, enhancements, training and technical support; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 C.O. the City intends
to enter into an agreement with
SoundCom Systems, Inc., a subconsultant to Logicalis, Inc., to provide
installation of upgrades, maintenance, training and professional services for the paging and sound systems at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for a period of one
year starting upon execution, as
they are the only authorized vendor
to provide these services; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of division
(e) of Section 181.102 C.O., the compensation to be paid SoundCom Systems, Inc. to provide installation of
upgrades, maintenance, training and
professional services for the paging
and sound systems at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport shall
not exceed $38,900.00.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Interim
Director
Szabo, Directors Cox, McGrath, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director West, Directors Nichols,
Fumich,
and
Acting
Director
Vanover.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 126-16.
By Director McGrath.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.

473

11
880-14, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on July 16, 2014,
Donald Martens & Sons Ambulance
Services, Inc. is selected from a list
of firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Safety as the firm to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
advanced
life
support
ambulance service to the City of
for
a
period
of
six
Cleveland
months, for the Division of Emergency Medical Service, Department
of Public Safety.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into a contract with
Donald Martens & Sons Ambulance
Services, Inc. based upon its proposal
dated
December
18,
2015,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
for rendering the above-mentioned
professional services as described in
the proposal for an amount not to
exceed $154,350.00, and shall contain
such additional provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Davis,
Interim
Director
Dumas,
Szabo, Directors Cox, McGrath, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director West, Directors Nichols,
Fumich,
and
Acting
Director
Vanover.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 127-16.
By Director McGrath.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
880-14, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on July 16, 2014,
Physicians & Surgeons Ambulance
Service d/b/a American Medical
Response, Inc. is selected from a list
of firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Safety as the firm to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
advanced
life
support
ambulance service to the City of
Cleveland
for
a
period
of
six
months, for the Division of Emergency Medical Service, Department
of Public Safety.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into a contract with
Physicians & Surgeons Ambulance
Service d/b/a American Medical
Response, Inc. based upon its proposal
dated
December
18,
2015,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
for rendering the above-mentioned
professional services as described in
the proposal for an amount not to
exceed $176,400.00, and shall contain
such additional provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Interim
Director
Szabo, Directors Cox, McGrath, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim

12
Director West, Directors Nichols,
and
Acting
Director
Fumich,
Vanover.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 128-16.
By Directors Cox and Dumas.
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 73-16, adopted February
24, 2016, authorized the Director of
Public Works and the Director of
Finance to employ by contract one
or
more
temporary
employment
agencies to provide professional services to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for the Department
of Public Works and the Project
Clean program, and for the Department of Finance, for a period up to
one year; and
Whereas,
Resolution
No.
73-16
incorrectly stated the percentage to
be applied to the Bureau of Wage
Statistics current Wage Estimates
for a particular occupation to determine the fee for each individual
temporary and seasonal personnel
position as 123.6%; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 73-16, adopted by this
Board February 24, 2016, authorizing
the Director of Public Works and
the Director of Finance to enter into
contract with Snider-Blake Business
Service, Inc. to perform professional
services necessary to supply temporary and seasonal personnel is
amended by revising the percentage
to be applied to the Bureau of Wage
Statistics current Wage Estimates
for a particular occupation to determine the fee for each individual
temporary and seasonal personnel
position from 123.6% to 127.6%
where appearing in the resolution.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
73-16 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Interim
Director
Szabo, Directors Cox, McGrath, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director West, Directors Nichols,
Fumich,
and
Acting
Director
Vanover.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 129-16.
By Acting Director Cosgrove.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
865-15, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on August 19,
2015, the Graddic Company, is selected from a list of qualified firms
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Acting Director of
Community Development as the firm
to be employed by contract to perform the professional services necessary for the HOME Program and
Uniform
Relocation
Act
(URA)
Property
Standards,
to
conduct
Decent, Safe and Sanitary (DSS)
Inspections of units previously completed under a Housing and Urban
Development (“MUD”) program, for
the Division of Administrative Services, Department of Community
Development.

The City Record
Be it further resolved that the Acting Director of Community Development is authorized to enter into a
written contract with the Graddic
Company, based on its proposal
dated December 11, 2015, for compensation not to exceed $100,000.00.
The agreement authorized hereby
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain such other
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Directors
Langhenry,
Yeas:
Dumas,
Davis,
Interim
Director
Szabo, Directors Cox, McGrath, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director West, Directors Nichols,
and
Acting
Director
Fumich,
Vanover.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 130-16.
By Director Nichols.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1441-15, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
December 7, 2015, the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a Purchase
Agreement and/or Option to PurAgreement
with
Empire
chase
Paving,
Inc.,
or
its
designee,
(“Empire”) relating to the sale,
remediation, and development of
City-owned property located at 2910
West 3rd Street (the “Property”)
and, by and at the direction of the
Board of Control, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to convey the Property, which
has been found and determined to
be no longer needed for the City’s
public use; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is directed to convey the
Property to Empire under the Purchase Agreement and/or the Option
to Purchase Agreement at a price of
$100,000 and other valuable consideration which has been determined
to be fair market value, less credits
of up to $75,000, for environmental
remediation, taking into account all
restrictions,
and
encumbrances
placed by the City of Cleveland in
the deeds of conveyance.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Davis,
Interim
Director
Szabo, Directors Cox, McGrath, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director West, Directors Nichols,
Fumich,
and
Acting
Director
Vanover.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.

474

March 30, 2016
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing will be notified of the results of
the examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
There-after, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of
the names of those candidates who
have been successful in all parts of
the examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2016
Filing Beginning 4/1/2016
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Exam
Type

22

WR

Airport Field
Unit Leader - Field
Open

23

WR

Custodial Worker
Supervisor
Open

24

WR

Electric Bridge
Operator
Open

25

EE

Truck Driver
Non-Competitive

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.

The City Record

March 30, 2016
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

Car insurance documents.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 22
AIRPORT FIELD UNIT LEADER FIELD (OPEN)

Under direction, supervises maintenance and repair work on airport
equipment, facilities, and buildings.
Assists with assignment of work.
Orders equipment and supplies. Manages work orders for appropriate sections. Supervises maintenance workers who provide labor for maintenance operations for summer and
winter tasks on runways, taxiways,
ramps, and airport-owned facilities.
Monitors and inspects crews, job
sites, and daily work assignments.
Assigns work tasks and completes
Alternative and Online Dispute Resolutions. Communicates with Control
Tower. Operates computers utilizing
standard and customized software
packages. Oversees Work with HVAC
systems including hot water boiler
operations, air handles, rooftop AC
and HV units as well as work on sanitary pump station. Supervises and
performs work with shop floor equipment such as metal brake, band saw,
metal shear, etc. Works with all hand
and power tools used in the maintenance field. Interprets mechanical
blueprints and plumbing isometric
drawings. Performs other job-related
duties as assigned.

13
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 23
CUSTODIAL WORKER SUPERVISOR (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $19.78 - $21.78 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $21.32 - $23.32 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2016
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 7, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A valid High School Diploma or GED
is required. A valid State of Ohio
Class
“B”
Commercial
Driver’s
License is required. One year of supervisory experience as well as experience with work-order management
system (WEBTMA) is preferred.
Must successfully complete a Transportation Security Administration
(TSA) 10 year fingerprint-based
Criminal History Records Check and
employment background check and
Security Threat Assessment. Must be
able to lift and carry 60 pounds. Must
be able to work any shift assignment
and overtime during the snow season.
Two years of supervisory experience
in ground maintenance or general
operations experience is required.
(Substitution: A Bachelor’s Degree in
Aviation Management or related field
may substitute for experience.)
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s

475

Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2016
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 7, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, directs
and assigns the work performed by

The City Record

14
Custodial Workers. Performs custodial tasks. Maintains inventory of
cleaning supplies and tools. Trains
employees in correct safety procedures, policies, and cleaning methods.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A high school diploma or GED is
required. Two years of housekeeping
training as well as two years of full
time paid managerial or supervisory
experience is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 24
ELECTRIC
(OPEN)

BRIDGE

OPERATOR

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance

of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $18.80 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2016
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 7, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
ALL
INFORMATION
CONAND
TAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, operates and
maintains the mechanism of an electrically controlled swing or draw
bridge. Maintains a log recording
bridge openings, vessel movements,
accidents, equipment malfunctions,
and unusual occurrences. Tests to
ascertain that all bells, lights, and
warning signals are operational
when starting shift. Checks all locks
on stairways at the beginning of shift
to ensure they are locked and to prevent any person’s entry to unauthorized areas as well as the operator’s
cabin. Reports any security issues.
Notifies bridge mechanic of any
equipment malfunctions. Maintains
constant audio and video watch for
signals from boats or barges. Ensures
that all highway traffic over bridge
has been stopped before opening
bridge. Opens bridge for passage of
boats and closes bridge following passage. Records vessel names, direction, and time of passing in logbook.
Completes bridge accident report
forms. Operates a computer. Cleans
and maintains operator house and
facilities. Keeps bridge sidewalks
swept clean/washed down. Removes
snow and ice from bridge proper and
bridge sidewalks using hand and/or
powered equipment when necessary.
Removes litter from general area.
Keeps bridge roadway clear of road
hazards. Assists bridge maintenance
personnel in performing more complex maintenance on mechanical and
electrical equipment. In emergency
situations, may be required to act as

476

March 30, 2016
Flag Person. Makes calls for police.
Records license numbers of vehicles
involved in accidents. Drives personal vehicle to other bridges to operate
as necessary. Performs related duties
as required.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of full time paid
experience in the operation, installation, maintenance, or repair of heavy
industrial electro-mechanical equipment (e.g.: electric motors, large
cranes, elevators, etc.) or related field
is required. Must be able to climb ladders and stairs to a height of 100 feet
above water and must be able to work
various shifts and days. A valid State
of Ohio Driver’s License is required.
Must own or have access to a properly
insured vehicle. Must be able to lift
and carry at least 30 pounds. Must
possess computer skills and be familiar with various Microsoft programs
such as Word, Excel, and Outlook
(Demonstrable by testing).
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 25
TRUCK DRIVER (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.

The City Record

March 30, 2016
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $19.99 - $20.80 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2016 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.

operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Class A
or B Commercial Driver’s License is
required. Must have a good driving
record. Must be able to lift and carry
75 pounds. Must be able to work outside in all types of weather. Must be a
City of Cleveland Seasonal Snow
Removal Vehicle Operator. The following requirements are specific to
particular hiring departments. Airbrake endorsement is required. Trailer endorsement is required. One year
of full time paid experience in the
operation of farm tractors greater
than 30 horsepower with various
maintenance and landscape attachments. Four years of full time paid
experience operating a Waste Collection vehicle or a straight truck is
required.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, drives a truck and
assists support personnel of the truck
in the performance of work for which
the truck is operated. Keeps daily
written records as required by division; Must have a knowledge of the
streets of Cleveland; Duties may
include Operates all mobile motorized
equipment and/or vehicles assigned
to the Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties ; Assists, to the extent
possible in other grounds maintenance functions; Operates the truck
mechanism for loading, unloading,
and compacting; Drives a dump truck,
manual or automatic shift, with
hydraulic lifts and compressing operations; responsible for the normal,
preventative maintenance of his/her
assigned vehicle such as, but not limited to, checking oil, checking tires,
checking water, checking fuel, fuel
lights Performs other related duties
as assigned. Follows all operations
and safety policies and safe work
practices. Attends and participates in

March 30, 2016.

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY APRIL 11, 2016
9:30 A.M.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 16-040: 19001 Nottingham Road (Ward 10)
NB
Cleveland
LLC.,
owner,
appeals under the authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from a Notice of Violation
Number V16003289 issued on February 2, 2016 by the Cleveland Department of Building and Housing for
failure
to
comply
with
Section

477

15
327.02(C) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances which states that there
shall be no change or substitution
of the use of any building or premises, nor shall any premises be occupied for any new use until a Certificate of Occupancy has been
issued. (Filed February 29, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-042: 1593 East 30th
Street (Ward 7)
Hom Family Ltd. Partnership,
owner, proposes to establish use as
a bar with karaoke rooms in a B1
Semi-Industry District. The owner
appeals for relief from the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 349.04(e) which states
that parking equal to three times to
gross floor area is required or in
this case 56 spaces (gross floor area
is 10,029 square feet) and 9 spaces
are proposed.
2. Section 349.05(a) which states
that no parking space shall be located within ten (10) feet of any wall
of a residential building/structure.
3. Section 349.07(b) which states
that wheel or bumper guards are
required and none are proposed.
4. Section 352.11 which states that
a 10 foot wide landscape transition
strip is required where a Semi-Industry District abuts a Two-Family
Residential District and none are
proposed. (Filed March 1, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-043: 9411 Broadway
Avenue (Ward 12)
Community Assessment & Treatment Services, owner, proposes to
expand occupancy of existing Correctional Halfway House from 54 to
60 female residents in a C1 General
Retail Business District. The owner
appeals
for
relief
from
Section
347.15(c) which states that No Certificate of Occupancy for establishment or expansion of a correctional
halfway house shall be issued without approval of such application by
the Board of Zoning Appeals, after
public notice and a public hearing.
In order to ensure compatibility
between a proposed correctional
halfway house, or expansion thereof, and surrounding properties, the
Board may require modifications to
a proposal as a condition of its
approval. The Board shall determine
the suitability of a proposed correctional halfway house, or expansion
thereof, at a particular location,
through consideration of, among
others, the following factors.
(1) Conformance of the proposal
to the requirements of this section
and to other applicable regulations
of the City’s Codified Ordinances;
(2) The record of the proposed
operator in managing similar facilities; and
(3) The size of the proposed facility as it affects potential over-concentration of a correctional system
population in the immediate vicinity. (Filed March 2, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-044: 3908 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 3)
Malta Hall Association, owner,
proposes to add entertainment and
events such as live theater, music

The City Record

16
and comedy performances, performance art, film screenings, lectures
and meetings for 10 to 150 persons,
food/drink
service
to
including
existing retail space in a D3 Local
Retail
Business
and
Pedestrian
Retail Overlay District (PRO). The
owner appeals for relief from the
following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 343.11(b)(2)(L) which
states that use of premises for entertainment and assembly events is not
permitted in a Local Retail Business
District, first permitted in General
Retail Business District pursuant to
Section 347.12(a), use must be at
least 500 feet from residence district, day care center, library, or
community center. The proposed use
is within 500 feet of residential districts to the north and south, Like
Home Childcare day care center at
3928 Lorain Avenue, May Dugan
Community Center at 4115 Bridge
and
Cleveland
Public
Avenue,
Library, Carnegie West Branch at
1900 Fulton Road.
2. Section 349.04(e) which states
that parking for entertainment and
assembly event use is required at
the rate of three times the gross
floor area, and can be reduced by
one third due to a location in a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District
per Section 343.23(i); a parking area
of 2 times the gross floor area
(10,374 square feet) is required.
3. Sections 352.08 through 352.12
which state that a ten foot wide
landscaped transition strip providing 75% year round opacity is
required at rear of property abutting alley; a landscaping plan is
required and none are provided.
(Filed March 3, 2016)
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 16-045: 3908 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 3)
Malta Hall Association, owner,
appeals under the authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from a Notice of Violation
Number V16005394 issued on February 19, 2016 by the Cleveland
Department of Building and Housing for failure to comply with Section 327.02 (C) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances which states that
there shall be no change or substitution of the use of any building or
premises, nor shall any premises be
occupied for any new use until a
Certificate of Occupancy has been
issued. (Filed March 3, 2016)
POSTPONED FROM
MARCH 14, 2016
Calendar No. 16-002: 16117 St. Clair
Avenue (Ward 8)
Argee Industries, Inc., owner, proposes to establish use as a Motor
Vehicle Repair Garage and Motor
Vehicle Sales Facility in a C2 Local
Retail Business District. The owner
appeals for relief from the following
Sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 343.01(b) which states
that Motor Vehicle Repair Garage
and Motor Vehicle Sales Facility is

March 30, 2016

not a permitted use in a Local
Retail Business District; Sales is
first permitted in a General Retail
Business District and a Repair
Garage is first permitted in a SemiIndustry District, and even in this
district only if 100 feet from a residential district.
2. Section 349.04(f) which states
that a minimum of 25% of the gross
lot area must be designated for customer parking.
3. Sections 352.08 through 352.12
which states that a four foot wide
landscaped
frontage
strip
is
required where lot abuts public
right of way. A landscape plan is
required.
4.
Section
358.05(a)(2)
which
states that fences in actual front
yards shall not exceed four feet in
height. A fence higher than four
feet is existing in the actual front
yard. (Filed January 11, 2016 - No
Testimony)
Second postponement made at the
request of the appellant in order to
allow for design review to take
place. First postponement made at
the request of the appellant.

adjoining lots are within 15 feet to
the proposed garage.
6. Section 337.23 (a)(7)(A) which
states that in a residence district
the accessory garage shall be located a minimum of 18 inches from all
property
lines.
The
proposed
garage’s roof overhangs and gutters
are 0 inches to the property line.
(Filed January 26, 2016 - No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant due to a
scheduling conflict.

POSTPONED FROM
MARCH 28, 2016

Calendar No. 16-026: 12603 Buckeye
Road
Hingetown Holdings LLC, owners,
propose to establish use as residential in a D2 Local Retail Business
and a Pedestrian Retail Overlay District (PRO).

Calendar No. 16-006: 15202 Waterloo
Road (Ward 8)
Meir Besit Trust, owner, proposes
to strip and establish parking lot for
auto sales lot in a C2 Local Retail
Business District and a Pedestrian
Retail Overlay District. The owner
appeals for relief from the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 352.10 which states that
a 4' wide landscape strip is required
where the auto sales lot abuts public streets (Waterloo Road and
Daniel Avenue).
2. Section 358.05 which states that
a fence in the actual front yard and
side street yard shall not exceed 4'
in height and shall be at least 50%
open. In actual rear yard and actual interior side yard fence shall not
exceed 6' in height and may be
open or solid. (Filed January 19,
2016 - No Testimony)
Second postponement made at the
request of the appellant due to a
scheduling conflict. First postponement made at the request of the
appellant to allow for time for
design review to take place.
POSTPONED FROM
MARCH 7, 2016
Calendar No. 16-017: 781 Starkweather Avenue (Ward 3)
Kristen McCann and Jonathan
Rose, owners, propose to build a 19'
x 19' two car garage in a B1 Two
Family Residential District. The
owners appeal for relief from the
following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
5. Section 353.05 which states that
in Residence Districts an accessory
building shall not exceed fifteen
(15) feet in height, or the distance
from the accessory building to a
main building or potential location
of a main building on adjoining
premises in a Residence District,
whichever is less. Main buildings on

478

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
28, 2016 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
following
The
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-030: 1702 West 28th
Street
Kirt Montlack, owner, proposes to
change use from office and apartment to 31 apartment units in a C2
Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 16-31: 2910 Hancock
Avenue
Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp. owner, and Michael
Horton propose to erect a 22' - 7" x
28' - 9" three story frame single
family residence with an attached
garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-32: 2168 West 29th
Street
Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp. owner, and Michael
Horton propose to erect a 22' - 7" x
28' - 9" three story frame single
family residence with an attached
garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 16-29: 16700 Saint Clair
Avenue
WRRS LLC, owner, appeals under
the authority of Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland and
Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances from a Notice of
Violation issued on January 22, 2016
by the Cleveland Department of
Building and Housing.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

None.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.

The City Record

17
The following cases were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 16-001: 4118 Lorain
Avenue
Ron Leonhardt. Postponed to May
9, 2016.
Calendar No. 16-006: 15202 Waterloo
Road
Meir Besit Trust. Postponed to
April 11, 2016.

Calendar No. 16-027: 10818 Bernard
Avenue
Ramdat Sarran. Postponed to May
2, 2016.
The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, March 21, 2016 and the decisions were adopted and approved on
Monday, March 28, 2016:
following
The
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-20: 12603 Buckeye
Road
Carlin and Sunnah McNary, owners, propose to establish use as a
barber shop in a C2 Residence-Office
District.
Calendar No. 16-23: 4304 West 191st
Street
Marilyn A. Lombardo, owner, proposes to construct a 15' x 20'
garage addition to existing single
family dwelling in and A1 One-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-25: 2052 West 44th
Street
B.R. Knez, prospective purchaser,
proposes to construct a 1,686 square
foot, two story single family residence on a 3,750 square foot Cleveland Landbank parcel in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
March 23, 2016
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-270-15.
RE: Appeal of John P. Martin,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half Story Masonry Property,
located on the premises known as
14312 Triskett Road a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated December 4, 2015
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-270-15 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for April
6, 2016.

Docket A-9-16.
RE: Appeal of REZ Properties
LLC, Owner of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two &
Story
Frame
Property,
One/half
located on the premises known as
7403 Halle Avenue from a NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 15,
2015 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 1, 2016 to obtain
all required permits and until July
1, 2016 to complete abatement of all
violations on the property. The property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Bradley,
Absent: Mr. Saab.

March 30, 2016
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Bradley,
Absent: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-13-16.
RE: Appeal of Anthony Holman
Sr., Owner of the One Dwelling Unit
Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 2031 North Green
Road a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 15, 2015 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-13-16 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *

*    *    *
Docket A-10-16.
RE: Appeal of Patrick Slaughter,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 2891 East 111th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 15, 2015 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until April 15, 2016 to submit plans to the Building Department indicating details of the construction as it exist now, until September 1, 2016 to complete abatement of the exterior violations, and
until November 1, 2016 to complete
abatement of all violations on the
property, interior and exterior
The property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.

Docket A-14-16.
RE: Appeal of Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, Owner of the One
Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence One & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 11914 Lenacrave Avenue
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated December 23, 2015 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-14-16 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for April
6, 2016.
*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-15-16.
RE: Appeal of Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, Owner of the Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
11213 Greenwich Lane from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated December 22,
2015 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-15-16 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for April
6, 2016.

Docket A-11-16.
RE:
Appeal
of
Elizabeth
Edwards/Janice Edwards, Owners
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence One & One/half
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 2138 West
18th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated December 15, 2015 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellants until September 1, 2016 to
complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED

Docket A-16-16.
RE: Appeal of Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, Owner of the One
Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
3247 East 128th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated December 23,
2015 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-14-16 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for April
6, 2016.

479

*    *    *

The City Record

18
Docket A-17-16.
RE: Appeal of Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, Owner of the One Story
Garage — Detached; Wood Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 2109 West 95th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
GARAGE, dated December 23, 2015
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-14-16 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for April
6, 2016.
*    *    *
Docket A-18-16.
RE: Appeal of Rochelle Sessor,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
9523 Easton Avenue from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXMAINTENANCE,
dated
TERIOR
January 8, 2016 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require the
Appellant to abate the electrical violations and clean up all the debris
on the property by April 15, 2016;
and until October 1, 2016 to complete
abatement of all the violations on
the
property;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Saab.

A-3-16
A-4-16
A-5-16
A-6-16
A-7-16

—
—
—
—
—

2901 Euclid Avenue, LLC
Zhong Ming Wang
Frank Humr
Willie Bedell Jr.
Willie Bedell Jr.

March 30, 2016

*    *    *

submitted to the office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the date
of bid opening or submission of
proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations made on these forms
may result in cancellation of the
contract or other civil or criminal
penalties.”

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:

FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):

File No. 38-16 — 2016 Summer Food
Services Program - Camp Forbes,
for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 129315, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, November 9,
2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDAPRE-BID
MEETING,
TORY
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016 AT
10:30 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL,
THE
DIVISION
OF
RECREATION, ROOM 8, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr.
Maschke. Absent: Mr. Saab.

March 9, 2016
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr.
Maschke. Absent: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

File No. 39-16 — 2016 Summer Food
Service Program - 3 Month Breakfast & Lunches, for the Division
Recreation,
Department
of
of
Public Works, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1293-15, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, November 9, 2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
THE
DIVISION
OF
HALL,
RECREATION, ROOM 8, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
March 23, 2016 and March 30, 2016
For All Departments

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised, the following notice shall
be included in the advertisement:
“Pursuant to the MBE/FBE Code,
each prime bidder, each minority
business enterprise (“MBE”) and each
female business enterprise (“FBE”)
must be certified before doing
business with the City. Therefore, any
prime contractor wishing to receive
credit for using an MBE or FBE
should ensure that applications for
certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative
action
in
employment
and,
if
applicable, joint venture status, are

File No. 42-16 — Sewer Test Tee
Inspection,
Installation
And
Snaking, for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 541-13,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 11, 1990.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016 AT
10:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
RED CONFERENCE ROOM, 12302
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.

*    *    *
Docket A-49-16.
RE: Appeal of HH Cleveland
Huntington, LP C/O Newmark Management, Owner of the Property,
located on the premises known as
925 Euclid Avenue from an ADJUDICATION ORDER — (special event
venue occupant load to 2,120), dated
March 7, 2016 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date; the docket
will remain open and be rescheduled
for a later date at the request of the
Appellant.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolutions as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-252-15 — Cansouth Properties
LLC
A-269-15 — Woodmen of the World
A-1-16 — Susan Frank
A-2-16 — Hom Family Limited
Partnership

480

File No. 43-16 — Labor & Materials
Necessary to Repair, Maintain
and Upgrade the Supervisory Control
and
Data
Acquisition
(SCADA) System, for the Division
of
Water
Pollution
Control,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 79614, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 2014.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016 AT
11:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
RED CONFERENCE ROOM, 12302
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.
March 23, 2016 and March 30, 2016

March 30, 2016
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 78-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the necessity and intention to appropriate an easement for public use in
connection with the Scranton/Carter
Road Rehabilitation project.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of requiring an easement to be
used in connection with the Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation project, it is necessary to appropriate,
and this Council declares its intent to
appropriate, the easement in and at
the following location for the public
purpose of the construction and maintenance of a sewer along Scranton
Road:
Situated in State of Ohio, County of
Cuyahoga, City of Cleveland and
being known as part of Parcel 234 on
Bradford and Carter’s private map of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot No. 70, and also being part of a
parcel conveyed to Veronica Popil by
deed dated March 5, 2010 and recorded
as Instrument No. 201003050333 of the
Cuyahoga County Records and being
a parcel of land lying on the Western
side of Scranton Road centerline of
right of way (60 feet wide) and more
particularly bounded and described
as follows:
Commencing for reference at a
monument box with a drill hole in a
stone monument on Scranton Road
centerline of right of way (60 feet
wide), said monument box found
North 00 degrees 29 minutes 44 seconds East a distance of 277.44 feet
from a monument box with a drill
hole in a stone monument on Scranton
Road centerline of right of way, said
monument box also found South 03
degrees 07 minutes 00 seconds West a
distance of 937.66 feet from the intersection with University Avenue (60
feet wide); thence, along Scranton
Road centerline of right of way North
03 degrees 07 minutes 00 seconds East
(passing a monument box with a drill
hole in a stone monument found 0.43
feet right at a distance of 130.86 feet
and a monument box with a drill hole
in a stone monument 0.26 feet right at
a distance of 180.82 feet) a distance of
841.19 feet; thence, North 86 degrees 53
minutes 00 seconds West a distance of
30.00 feet to the Scranton Road Western right of way and the True Point of
Beginning of the parcel herein
described;
thence, North 86 degrees 53 minutes
00 seconds West a distance of 25.98
feet to a point on a curve on the
Grantor’s Western property line and
the Eastern property line of a record
12.1573 acre parcel conveyed to Flats
Industrial Inc. by deed dated May 6,
2013 and recorded as Instrument No.
201305060864 of the Cuyahoga County
Records;
thence, along the Grantor’s Western property line and the Eastern
property line of said parcel so conveyed to Flats Industrial Inc. along
an arc of curve to the left having a
radius of 1,402.63 feet, an arc length of

The City Record
15.00 feet, a chord bearing North 02
degrees 37 minutes 08 seconds East, a
chord length of 15.00 feet, and a delta
of 00 degrees 36 minutes 25 seconds;
thence, South 86 degrees 53 minutes
00 seconds East a distance of 26.11
feet to the Scranton Road Western
right of way;
thence, along Scranton Road Western right of way, South 03 degrees 07
minutes 00 seconds West a distance of
15.00 feet to the True Point Of Beginning and containing 0.0090 acres (391
square feet), more or less, and subject
to all legal highways.
The above described tract is a portion of permanent parcel number 00426-002 carried on the tax map as 0.3749
acres (16,330 square feet).
Grantor claims title by deed dated
March 5, 2010 and recorded as Instrument No. 201003050333 of the Cuyahoga County Records.
The bearings referred to herein are
relative to grid north of the Ohio State
Plane Coordinates System, North
Zone NAD83 (2011) DATUM from GPS
observations and are for the purpose
of defining directional variations.
This description was prepared and
reviewed under the supervision of
Terin J. Kaminski, P.S., Registered
Surveyor No. 7207, and is based on survey made by Euthenics, Inc., between
October 2014 and June 2015 for the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to cause written notice of the adoption of this resolution to be given to the owners, persons in possession, or having an interest of record in the above-mentioned
premises. The notice shall be served
according to law by a person to be
designated for that purpose by the
Director of Finance which return
shall be made in the manner provided
by law.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Adopted March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Res. No. 158-16.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Broome Court N.W.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Broome Court N.W., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Declaring the intent to vacate a
portion of Broome Court N.W.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Alley No.

481

19
1 (now known as Broome Court
N.W.)(16.5 feet wide) of part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 55, 56, and
57 as shown in the Simon Perkins
Allotment recorded in Book F, Page
265 of Cuyahoga County Map Records,
further described as follows:
Being all the portion of Broome
Court (16.5 feet wide) extending from
the West right of way of West 3rd
Street (99.00 feet wide) (formerly
Seneca Street) Westerly to its terminus.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Adopted March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Res. No. 350-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution supporting House Bill 475, pending in the
Ohio House of Representatives, which
expands the Motion Picture Tax Credit.
Whereas, House Bill 475, which
expands the Motion Picture Tax Credit, was introduced in the Ohio House
of Representatives on February 23,
2106, and sponsored by Representative Kirk Schuring; and
Whereas, since July 2011, the $20
million tax credit, which reimburses
motion picture production companies
25 percent of what they spend in Ohio
and 35 percent of wages paid to residents, has paid for the equivalent of
1,729 full-time jobs and more than $400
million in total economic impact,
according to a recent economic study
conducted by the Maxine Goodman
Levin College of Urban Affairs at
Cleveland State University; and
Whereas, this study, commissioned
by the Greater Cleveland Film Commission, confirms that Ohio has benefited economically from a return on
investment of $2.01 for every $1 spent
by the state on the incentive; and
Whereas, despite these economic
benefits, Ohio has lost over a billion
dollars this year to other states such
as
Georgia,
New
Mexico,
and
Louisiana that offer more competitive
tax incentives to draw in motion picture productions; and
Whereas, House Bill 475 expands
Ohio’s Motion Picture Tax Credit by
authorizing motion picture companies to transfer the authority to claim
refundable tax credits to other persons, adjusting how the credit is calculated, increasing the total amount
of credits that may be awarded per
year, removing the limit on the maximum credit amount that may be
awarded to a motion picture, and creating a job training program for resident film crew members; and
Whereas, House Bill 475 increases
the annual cap on the total amount of
tax credits allowed to 75 million dollars plus any amount of credit authority carried forward from previous fiscal years; and
Whereas, this Council recognizes
the economic benefits from the

20
Motion Picture Tax Credit, and supports House Bill 475 in order to
expand these benefits in Cleveland
and throughout Ohio; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports House Bill 475, pending in the
Ohio House of Representatives, which
expands the Motion Picture Tax Credit.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 922-15.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by amending
section 347.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 737-01,
passed May 20, 2002, relating to adult
entertainment.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That section 347.07 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. as amended by Ordinance No. 73701, passed May 20, 2002 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
Section 347.07 Adult Entertainment
(a) Purpose. Based upon evidence
and findings of negative secondary
effects of adult entertainment uses
presented in hearings before the
Council and in studies from other
communities, including the cities of
Indianapolis and New York, the Council finds that adult entertainment
uses in Cleveland cause negative secondary effects and has created this
section to regulate adult entertainment uses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of Cleveland by establishing
reasonable and uniform regulations
to prevent concentration of adult
entertainment uses and location near
specified other uses. The provisions
of this section have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of
any communicative materials, including adult entertainment materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent, or effect
of this section to restrict or deny
access by adults to adult entertainment materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of adult
entertainment to their intended market. Additionally, it is not the intent
or effect of this section to condone or
legitimize the distribution of obscene
material.

The City Record
(b) Definitions. As used in this Zoning Code:
(1) “Specified sexual activities”
means any of the following:
A. The fondling or other erotic
touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female
breast;
B. Sex acts, actual or simulated,
including masturbation, intercourse,
oral copulation or sodomy;
C. Excretory functions as part of or
in connection with any of the activities set forth in A. and B. above.
(2) “Specified anatomical areas”
means:
A. The cleft of the buttocks, anus,
male or female genitals, or the female
breast.
B. Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
(3) “Adult Bookstore” or “Adult
Video Store” means an establishment,
which, as one (1) of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration any one (1) or
more of the following:
A. Books, magazines, newspapers,
periodicals, or other printed matter,
or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, video reproductions, slides, laser discs, compact
discs or other visual representations,
which are distinguished or characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”; or
B. Instruments, devices, or other
paraphernalia, except prophylactic
products, designed or marketed for
use in connection with “specified sexual activities.”
An establishment may have other
principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale or
rental material depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” and still
be categorized as an adult bookstore
or adult video store. Such other business purpose will not serve to exempt
an establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore or adult
video store so long as one (1) of its
principal business purposes is the
offering for sale or rental for consideration the above specified materials.
(4) “Adult Motion Picture Theatre”
means a commercial establishment,
regardless of capacity, where films,
motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides or similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which
are distinguished or characterized by
the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas.” This definition of
adult motion picture theater does not
include the definitions of adult video
arcade and adult cabaret, which are
separate uses.
(5) “Adult Video Arcade” means
any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein one (1) or
more enclosed or screened areas or
booths are maintained wherein still
or motion picture machines, projectors, video, compact or laser disc players or other image-producing devices
are operated or maintained to show
images to five (5) or fewer persons
per enclosed area or booth at any one
time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by the depiction or description
of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas.”
(6) “Adult Cabaret” means a commercial establishment, including a
nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant,

482

March 30, 2016
bottle club, or similar establishment,
whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, which regularly features
any of the following:
A. persons who appear in a state of
nudity or semi-nudity;
B. persons who expose specified
anatomical areas, or dancers, strippers or similar live entertainers in
performances
which
are
distinguished or characterized by the exposure of “specified anatomical areas”
or by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities”;
C. films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized by the
depiction or description of “specified
anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities.” This definition of
adult cabaret does not include the
definitions of adult live entertainment arcade or adult theater, which
are separate uses.
(7) “Adult Theater” means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial establishment which
regularly features persons who
expose “specified anatomical areas”
or live performances which are distinguished or characterized by the exposure of “specified anatomical areas”
or by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities.” This definition of adult theater does not
include the definition of adult live
entertainment arcade which is a separate use.
(8) “Adult Live Entertainment
Arcade” means any place to which the
public is permitted or invited wherein
one (1) or more enclosed or screened
areas or booths are maintained for
viewing by five (5) or fewer persons
at any one (1) time live entertainment
such as a dance routine, strip performance or other similar entertainment,
which live entertainment is distinguished or characterized by the exposure of “specified anatomical areas”
or by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or by persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nudity.
(9) “Nudity” or “state of nudity”
means the showing of the human
male or female genitals, pubic area,
vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage
with less than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female
breasts with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple.
(10) “Semi-nudity” or “state of seminudity” means a state of dress in
which opaque clothing covers not
more than the genitals, pubic region,
and nipple of the female breast, as
well as portions of the body covered
by supporting straps or devices.
(c) Location. Uses defined in divisions (b)(3) Adult Bookstore, or
Adult Video Store, (b)(4) Adult
Motion Picture Theater, (b)(5) Adult
Video Arcade, (b)(6) Adult Cabaret,
(b)(7) Adult Theater and (b)(8)
Adult Live Theater Entertainment
Arcade of this section are designated
“adult entertainment” uses. Where
permitted in a use district, adult
entertainment uses are subject to the
following location restrictions:
(1) No adult entertainment use
shall be established on a lot or lots
within one thousand (1,000) feet of a
residence district.
(2) No two (2) adult entertainment
uses shall be located in the same
premises or on the same lot. An adult
entertainment use may never be an
accessory use as that term is used in
this Zoning Code.

March 30, 2016
(3) No adult entertainment use
shall be established on a lot or lots
within one thousand (1,000) feet of
another lot or lots containing an
existing adult entertainment use, or
of a lot or lots where there is no building or structure, but for which a valid
and current permit or certificate of
occupancy is issued for an adult
entertainment use.
(4) No adult entertainment use
shall be established on a lot or lots
within one thousand (1,000) feet of a
pool or billiard hall or a video or pinball arcade or tattooing or body piercing establishment.
(5) No adult entertainment use shall
be located on a lot or lots within one
thousand (1,000) feet of a premises,
which may be one (1) or more lots,
having as its principal use: a church,
synagogue
or
mosque;
special
education, preschool, kindergarten,
elementary, junior high or high

The City Record
school; education or training facility
for mentally or physically disabled
public
or
nonprofit
persons;
community center in which there are
regular programs for minors; public
library; public park; public recreation
center; playground; hospital; clinic;
infirmary; nursing or convalescent
homes; home for the aged; rest home;
orphanage or day care center.
(d) Permit Applications. The City
shall approve or disapprove the portion of the completed application
requiring review under division (c)
within thirty (30) calendar days of
submission.
(e) Signs and Exterior Display. No
adult entertainment use shall be conducted in any manner that permits
the observation of any material
depicting, describing or relating to
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” by display,
decorations, sign, show window or
other opening from any public view.

21
(f) Disseminating and Displaying
Material Harmful to Juveniles. All
adult entertainment uses shall comply with applicable state and local
laws regarding the dissemination and
display of material harmful to juveniles.
Section 2. That existing Section
347.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 737-01, passed May 20,
2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 1370-15.
By Council Members Cimperman and Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use Districts of parcels south of Castle Avenue and north of Buhrer Avenue between
I-71 and Quigley Road to a Limited Local Retail or Open Space Recreation, Changing the Area District to K,
Changing the Height District to 2 and establishing an Urban Form Overlay District as identified on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2526).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of West 14th Street and Clark Avenue;Thence northerly along the centerline of West
14th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of sublot 1 of the Curtis, Meyer & Holmden Allotment recorded in Volume 6, Page 18 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the centerline of Interstate 71;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of sublot
64 1 of the Curtis, Meyer & Holmden Allotment recorded in Volume 6, Page 18 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the centerline of W. 14th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of sublot
6 of the J.M. Curtiss Allotment recorded in Volume 12, Page 1 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and easterly prolongation to its intersection the centerline of W. 13th Place;
Thence northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of sublot
9 of the J.M. Curtiss Allotment recorded in Volume 12, Page 1 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and its prolongation to the centerline of West0 12th Street;
Thence westerly along the centerline of Mace Court to its intersection with the westerly line of sublot 54 of the J.M.
Curtiss Allotment recorded in Volume 12, Page 1 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly and easterly along the said westerly and southerly line to its intersection with the centerline of
West 11th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the northerly line of sublot 60 of the M. Curtiss Allotment recorded in Volume 12, Page 1 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and its prolongation to the centerline of Clark Ave;
Thence westerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of West 11th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of sublot
14 of the Cuyahoga County Realty Company Allotment recorded in Volume 50, Page 21 of the Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and its prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 13th
Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of sublot
1 of the Curtis-Ambler Co. allotment recorded in Volume 28, Page 14 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and its prolongation to the centerline of West 14th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to the place of origin;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a ‘Limited Local Retail’ District and a ‘2’ Height district and a ‘K’
Area District.
Section 2. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of Clark Avenue and West 11th Street;
Thence easterly along the centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Quigley Ave;
Thence northerly along said centerline for a distance of 401.89 feet;
Thence westerly along a line parallel with the centerline of Clark Avenue to its intersection with easterly line of
sublot 25 of the Cuyahoga County Realty Company Allotment recorded in Volume 50, Page 21 of the Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of sublot 22 of the Cuyahoga County Realty Company Allotment recorded in Volume 50, Page 21 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of sublot 21 of the Cuyahoga County Realty Company Allotment recorded in Volume 50, Page 21 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to the centerline of West 11th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to the place of origin;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a ‘Open Space Recreation’ District and a ‘2’ Height District.

483

The City Record

22

March 30, 2016

Section 3. That the lands located on the north and south sides of Clark Avenue starting at the centerline of I-71 and
extending easterly and parallel with Clark Ave a distance of 1400 ft and as shown on the attached map are hereby designated as a Urban Form Overlay District.
Section 4. That the lands on the west side of West 14th Street between Castle Avenue and Buhrer Avenue and as shown
on the attached map are hereby designated as a Urban Form Overlay District.
Section 5. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 through 4 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2507, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by
the City Planning Commission.
Section 6. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective April 20, 2016.

Ord. No. 23-16.
By Council Members Mitchell, K.
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to accept, acquire, and
record certain easement interests
from The Cleveland Clinic Foundation on East 96th Street between
Euclid Avenue and Carnegie Avenue
for the use of a public sidewalk.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to accept,
acquire, and record certain easement
rights from The Cleveland Clinic
Foundation in and to the premises
described for a public sidewalk at
East 96th Street between Euclid

Avenue and Carnegie Avenue, more
fully described as follows:
Beginning at a point 43.00 feet
South along the easterly right of way
line of E. 96th Street from the intersection of the southerly right of way
line of Euclid Ave, 80 feet wide, with
the easterly right of way line of E.
96th Street, 66 feet wide, said intersection also being the northwesterly corner of Permanent Parcel # 119-17-006
owned by the Cleveland Clinic Foundation;
Course 1: Thence South along the
easterly right of way of E. 96th Street
a distance of 182.00 feet;
Course 2:
Thence East a distance of 12.00 feet
by normal measurement;
Course 3:
Thence North along a line parallel
with and 12.00 feet distant from, by
normal measurement, the easterly
line of E. 96th Street a distance of
182.00 feet;

484

Course 4:
Thence West a distance of 12.00
feet, by normal measurement to the
place of beginning.
The bearings as used herein are
assumed.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That the cost of accepting, acquiring, and recording the
easement rights shall be $1.00 and
other valuable consideration which is
determined to be fair market value.
The purchase price, appraisal, title,
escrow, and all other costs incurred in
acquiring and recording the easement
interests shall be paid from the fund
or funds deemed appropriate by the
Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
any documents on behalf of the City
of Cleveland necessary to effect the
purposes of this ordinance.

March 30, 2016
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it rec eives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

The City Record
the members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect

23
and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 72-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An ordinance establishing the Rockport Design Review District along West 130th Street between Kirton Avenue
and Astor Avenue as shown shaded on the attached map. (Map Change No. 2531).
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has determined that the proposed Rockport Design Review District
meets the criteria for designation outlined in Section 341.04 of Chapter 341 of the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, Ohio, now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Rockport Design Review District is hereby
established and includes lands located along West 130th Street between Kirton Avenue and Astor Avenue and
as shown shaded on the attached map.
Section 2. That the designation of the area described in Section 1 hereof as the Rockport Design Review District shall be identified as Map Change Number 2531, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City
of Cleveland and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for
such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective April 20, 2016.

Ord. No. 73-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of parcels along the east and west sides of West
130th Street, South of Erwin Avenue to Sprecher Avenue to LLR (Limited Retail), a ‘G’ area District and a ‘2’
Height District as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2530).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of West 130th Street and Wilton Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Wilton Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the easterly property line of Sublot No.352 in the Scott Hall Clark Co’s Settlement Road Subdivision No. 1 as recoded in Cuyahoga County Map Records Book 43 Page 23;
Thence southerly along said easterly property line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Crossburn Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Crossburn Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 130th
Street;

485

The City Record

24

March 30, 2016

Thence southerly along said centerline of West 130th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Sprecher
Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Sprecher Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation
of the easterly property line of Sublot No. 206 in the Clark-Machester Co Homesite Subdivision as recoded in Cuyahoga County Map Records Book 54 Page 34;
Thence southerly along said easterly property line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the northerly property line of Sublot No. 10 in the Manufacturing Sites Subdivision as recoded in Cuyahoga County Map Records Book 147 Page 42;
Thence easterly along said northerly property line and its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 130th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 130th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation
of the southerly property line of Sublot No. 204 in the Clark-Machester Co Homesite Subdivision No. 6 as recoded in Cuyahoga County Map Records Book 59 Page 8;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of the southerly property line to its intersection with the easterly property line of Sublot No. 204 in the Clark-Machester Co Homesite Subdivision No. 6 as recoded in Cuyahoga County Map Records Book 59 Page 8;
Thence northerly along said westerly propery line and and along its northerly prolongation to the intersection
of the southerly property line of Sublot No. 488 in the Drexel Park Allotment as shown in the City of Cleveland
Map Record UN178;
Thence easterly along said southerly property line to its intersection with the westerly property line of Sublot
No. 488 in the Drexel Park Allotment as shown in the City of Cleveland Map Record UN178;
Thence northerly along the said westerly property line along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of McGowan Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of McGowan Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation
of the easterly propertly line of Sublot No. 332 in the Drexel Park Allotment as shown in the City of Cleveland
Map Record UN178;
Thence northerly along said easterly property line to its intersection with the northerly property line of Sublot
No. 332 in the Drexel Park Allotment as shown in the City of Cleveland Map Record UN178;
Thence westerly along said northerly property line to its intersection with the easterly property line of Sublot
No. 327 in the Drexel Park Allotment as shown in the City of Cleveland Map Record UN178;
Thence northerly along said easterly property line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline fo Erwin Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Erwin Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 130th
Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 130th Street to its intersection with the place of origin;
And as shaded on the attached map are changed to a Limited Retail (LLR) District, a ‘G’ area District and a ‘2’
Height District.
Section 2. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2530, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk
of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for
this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective April 20, 2016.

486

The City Record

March 30, 2016
Ord. No. 75-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with the
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District to accept funding in support of
the Department of Public Safety’s
Environmental Crimes Task Force
for purposes, including but not limited to, the purchase of training and
equipment to assist in combatting
illegal dumping.
Whereas, there is an acknowledged
problem of illegal dumping of scrap
tires, solid waste, and construction
debris within the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, the City has established
an Environmental Crimes Task Force
(“City Task Force”) comprised of the
offices of Public Safety, Public
Health, Building and Housing, Law,
and others working collaboratively
with the City Task Force to combat
illegal dumping in the City; and
Whereas, the City’s Department of
Public Safety has established an environmental crimes unit that will investigate illegal dumping crimes and
seek prosecution for those crimes;
and
Whereas, under Resolution No.
150821-D of the Cuyahoga County
Solid Waste District (the “District”),
the District authorized payment in an
amount of $45,000 to the City of Cleveland Department of Public Safety to
support the environmental crimes
investigations and enforcement activities for the period of January 1, 2016
through December 31, 2016; and
Whereas, the City wishes to accept
the funding from the District; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an agreement with the District to
accept funding in support of the
City’s Environmental Crimes Task
Force, in an amount of $45,000 and
any other funds that become available during the agreement term, for
purposes, including but not limited to,

the purchase of training and equipment to assist in combatting illegal
dumping for the period of January 1,
2016 through December 31, 2016, and
those funds are appropriated for this
purpose.
Section 2. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the agreement, under
Section 108(b) of the Charter, purchases made under the agreement
may be made through cooperative
arrangements with other governmental agencies. The Director of Public
Safety may sign all documents and do
all things that are necessary to make
the purchases, and may enter into one
or more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process. The contracts shall be paid
from the fund or funds to which are
credited any funds accepted under
this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 76-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 135.065 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1344-08,
passed October 6, 2008, relating to the
purchase of firearms, ammunition,
helmets, tasers, and K-9 police dogs,
for the Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 135.065 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1344-08, passed October 6, 2008, is
amended to read as follows:

25
Section
135.065
Purchase
of
Firearms,
Ammunition,
Helmets,
Tasers, and K-9 Police Dogs, for the
Department of Public Safety
(a) The Director of Public Safety is
authorized to enter into one (1) or
more requirement or standard purchase contracts under the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as may be necessary, from
time to time, for the purchase of each
or all of the following items:
(1) Nine millimeter handguns,
including magazine clips and holsters;
(2) Shotguns, including necessary
appurtenances;
(3) Rifles, including necessary
appurtenances;
(4) Ammunition, both service and
reload;
(5) Helmets, including any necessary attachments;
(6) Tasers, including any necessary equipment; and
(7) K-9 police dogs, including any
related equipment, supplies and training.
(b) Any purchase made under this
section shall be made by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies and
paid from the annual appropriation
made for such purpose.
(c) That under Section 108(b) of the
Charter, the purchases authorized by
this section may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Safety may sign all documents that are necessary to make the
purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 2. That existing Section
135.065 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1344-08, passed October
6, 2008, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 118-16.
By Council Members Cleveland, Mitchell, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An ordinance establishing the Opportunity Corridor Design Review District on the north and south side of the
proposed Opportunity Corridor roadway between East 55th Street and Cedar Avenue as shown shaded on the
attached Map. (Map Change No. 2527).
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has determined that the proposed Opportunity Corridor Design Review
District meets the criteria for designation outlined in Section 341.04 of Chapter 341 of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland, Ohio, now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Opportunity Corridor Design Review District is hereby established and includes lands on
the north and south side of the proposed Opportunity Corridor roadway between East 55th Street and Cedar Avenue
and as shown shaded on the attached map.
Section 2. That the designation of the area described in Section 1 hereof as the Opportunity Corridor Design
Review District shall be identified as Map Change Number 2527, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps
of the City of Cleveland and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

487

The City Record

26

March 30, 2016

Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective April 20, 2016.

Ord. No. 125-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of all
municipal departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2016 until December 31, 2016.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the
fiscal year ending December 31, 2016, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Five Hundred Sixty Six Million, Eight Hundred Sixteen Thousand, Six Hundred Twenty Eight Dollars ($566,816,628) from the General Fund;
The sum of Seventy Nine Million, One Hundred Twenty Seven Thousand, Four Hundred Seventy Nine Dollars
($79,127,479) from the Special Revenue Funds;
The sum of One Hundred Twenty Two Million, Eight Hundred Sixty Two Thousand, Three Hundred Sixty Six
Dollars ($122,862,366) from the Internal Service Funds;
The sum of Seven Hundred Forty Four Million, Seven Hundred Seventy One Thousand, One Hundred Fifty Two
Dollars ($744,771,152) from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Eleven Million, Six Hundred Forty Thousand, Eight Hundred Twenty Nine Dollars ($11,640,829)
from the Trust and Agency Funds;
The sum of Sixty Five Million, Thirty Five Thousand, Six Hundred Eighty One Dollars ($65,035,681) from the
Debt Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor’s Estimate on file with Council and identified in the aggregate amount for each
department as follows:

488

The City Record

March 30, 2016

27

GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
General Government
Department of Aging
Department of Human Resources
Department of Law
Department of Finance
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Public Works
Department of Community Development
Department of Building and Housing
Department of Economic Development
Nondepartmental

$

7,326,653
39,365,935

14,942,983
1,173,863
2,440,965
11,821,850
16,860,237
7,479,561
330,753,065
67,805,937
303,015
9,846,265
1,717,892
54,978,407
———————
520,124,040
———————
———————

Total Executive Branch
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

566,816,628
———————
———————
79,127,479
122,862,366
744,771,152
11,640,829
65,035,681
———————
$1,590,254,135
———————
———————

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2016

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

7,326,653

5,180,810
2,145,843
———————
$
7,326,653
———————
———————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

20,952,710
2,731,803

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

10,108,679
1,458,662

Municipal Court - Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,861,863
252,218

$

23,684,513

$

11,567,341

$

4,114,081

———————
$
39,365,935
———————
———————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,771,030
107,457

Office of Capital Projects
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

4,864,932
516,027

Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

199,233
11,988

489

$

2,878,487

$

5,380,959

$

211,221

28

The City Record

March 30, 2016

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

129,324
10,290

Board of Zoning Appeals
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

215,263
20,647

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

654,955
798,346

$

1,246,740
116,393

$

1,567,274
97,269

Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Boxing and Wrestling Commission
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.
Office of Budget & Management-Budget
Administration
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

139,614

$

235,910

$

1,453,301

$

1,363,133

$

1,664,543

$

49,840

$ 49,840

$

653,931
19,997

$

804,493
87,554

$

673,928

$

892,047

———————
$
14,942,983
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,173,863

923,273
250,590
———————
$
1,173,863
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES
Department of Human Resources
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

2,440,965

1,403,343
1,037,622
———————
$
2,440,965
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Department of Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

11,821,850

6,928,465
4,893,385
———————
$
11,821,850
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

863,132
391,694

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,319,790
742,604

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,243,267
1,575,110

490

$

1,254,826

$

2,062,394

$

3,818,377

March 30, 2016

The City Record

29

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

663,598
117,094

Division of Purchases and Supplies
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

675,893
42,266

Bureau of Internal Audit
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

660,690
633,636

$

1,361,383
20,935

$

2,851,141
2,698,004

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses
Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

780,692

$

718,159

$

1,294,326

$

1,382,318

$

5,549,145

———————
$
16,860,237
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

928,343
390,464

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

2,064,310
2,328,191

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

1,083,415
268,565

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

124,573
291,700

$

1,318,807

$

4,392,501

$

1,351,980

$

416,273

———————
$
7,479,561
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,178,921

$

190,636,623

$

86,839,122

$

24,852,593

$

1,522,099

$

14,319,406

$

878,008

$

91,368

$ 180,737,000
9,899,623

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

82,952,783
3,886,339

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

22,225,137
2,627,456

Division of Animal Care and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,148,385
373,714

Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

10,734,410
3,584,996

Office of Professional Standards
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

837,790
40,218

Police Review Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

80,006
11,362

491

$
3,493,726
1,685,195

30

The City Record

March 30, 2016

Community Police Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

361,800
393,410

Police Inspector General
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

142,960
5,800

Department of Justice
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,637,550
1,893,405

$

755,210

$

148,760

$

5,530,955

———————
$ 330,753,065
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Public Works Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,155,148
268,425

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

8,376,666
3,893,088

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

1,184,880
59,651

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

5,510,646
2,253,743

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

8,986,464
5,091,040

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

14,194,775
11,141,680

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,795,792
893,939

$

3,423,573

$

12,269,754

$

1,244,531

$

7,764,389

$

14,077,504

$

25,336,455

$

3,689,731

———————
$
67,805,937
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR’S OFFICE
Department of Community Development
Director’s Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

303,015

292,589
10,426

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

———————
$
303,015
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Director’s Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,700,463
466,557

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

6,007,949
192,830

Division of Construction Permitting
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,452,823
25,643

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

492

$

2,167,020

$

6,200,779

$

1,478,466

———————
$
9,846,265
———————
———————

The City Record

March 30, 2016

31

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,717,892

1,694,833
23,059

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

———————
$
1,717,892
———————
———————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.
Other Expenses
Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses
Transfers to Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,725,000

$

22,463,073

$

30,790,334

$

1,725,000

$

22,463,073

$

30,790,334

———————
$
54,978,407
———————
———————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$ 520,124,040
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$ 566,816,628
———————
———————
SPECIAL REVENUE FUND

Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
Capital
II.
Debt Service

$

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

$

40,527,692

$

27,040,562

$

1,175,000

$

10,384,225

6,841,261
33,686,431

15,847,945
11,192,617

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,175,000

Division of Public Auditorium & StadiumStadium
II.
Other Expenses

$

10,384,225
———————
$
79,127,479
———————
———————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

DEBT SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
III.
Debt Service

$
$

65,035,681

65,035,681
———————
$
65,035,681
———————
———————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

195,638
539,850

$

1,483,359
6,044,275

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,804,369
10,041,244

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

924,832
1,465,935

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

111,583
464,758

Information Systems Services-Telephone
Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

493

$

735,488

$

7,527,634

$

15,845,613

$

2,390,767

$

576,341

The City Record

32

March 30, 2016

Health Self Insurance
II.
Other Expenses

$

77,788,871

Prescription Self Insurance
II.
Other Expenses

$

17,997,652

$

77,788,871

$

17,997,652

———————
$ 122,862,366
———————
———————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Radio
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

4,872,560
1,240,269

$

607,530
2,784,326

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

5,673,150
2,654,645

Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

85,419,013
230,573,575

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

11,099,397
15,332,173

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

25,640,346
181,471,475

$

6,112,829

$

3,391,856

$

8,327,795

$

315,992,588

$

26,431,570

$

207,111,821

———————
$ 567,368,459
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke
Lakefront Airports - Operations
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

160,341,280

30,847,795
129,493,485
———————
$ 160,341,280
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Cemeteries
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

Golf Course Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street
Parking
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,722,741

$

18,338

$

11,018,354

$

2,685,224

$

1,576,756

$ 338
18,000

$

1,399,859
9,618,495

Division of Public Auditorium
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,305,823
1,379,401

Division of West Side Market
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

482,635
1,094,121

494

$
1,275,223
447,518

The City Record

March 30, 2016

Division of Property Management East Side Market
II.
Other Expenses

33
$
$

40,000

40,000
———————
$
17,061,413
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$ 744,771,152
———————
———————

AGENCY FUND
Central Collection Agency
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$
$

11,640,829

7,521,875
4,118,954
———————
$
11,640,829
———————
———————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the Mayor’s
Estimate, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for I. - Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. - Other Expenses and are not severally and individually appropriated in
said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 2015 is hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 2016 or prior years. The Mayor’s
Estimate, as modified by the schedule published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter shall within the sums
appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure budget for the year 2016 and shall be subject to the
control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer from I. - Personnel and Related Expenses, or II. - Other
Expenses within any department or office, or from one department or office to another shall be made except as
provided in Section 41 of the Charter.
Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is hereby authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury
for the amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of
the department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed
by law.
Ordinance No. _____ is herein published following the Public Hearing and before the third reading and final
passage and reflects the necessary amendments required by this schedule.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective April 20, 2016.

Ord. No. 152-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts with
Tyler Technologies fka New World
Systems, Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure dba Intergraph Corporation, and Winbourne Consulting, LLC
for the acquisition of software and
professional services necessary to
implement the upgrades to mobile
field reporting under the Law
Enforcement Record Management
System and the Computer Aided Dispatch System; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts needed in connection with the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Tyler
Technologies fka New World Systems
for professional services necessary to
acquire one or more software licenses
for mobile field reporting under the
Law Enforcement Record Management System (“LERMS”), and to provide implementation and other services needed to upgrade and implement the LERMS’ Mobile Field
Reporting upgrade, on the basis of its
proposal dated October 14, 2015, in the
total sum of $887,280, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public Safety.

Section 2. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Hexagon
Safety & Infrastructure dba Intergraph Corporation for professional
services necessary to acquire one or
more software licenses to implement
the
Computer
Aided
Dispatch
upgrade (“CAD”), and to provide
implementation and project management services needed to upgrade and
implement the CAD upgrade, on the
basis of its proposal dated July 24,
2015, in the total sum of $634,570, for
the Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Winbourne Consulting, LLC for professional services necessary to provide
project management services for the
implementation of the LERMS, on the
basis of its proposal dated December
1, 2015, in the total sum of $124,500, for
the Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety.
Section 4. The Director of Public
Safety is authorized to enter into any
third-party software licenses agreements necessary to effectuate the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written standard purchase
contracts and written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the period of requirements
to be determined by the director, for
the necessary items of materials,

495

equipment, supplies, and services necessary to implement this ordinance,
including labor and materials if necessary, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department of
Public Safety. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 6. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of any purchase under the
contract, each of which purchases
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 11 SF 006, 20 SF 517, 20 SF
524, 20 SF 532, 20 SF 539, 20 SF 545, 20
SF 551, 20 SF 553, 20 SF 559, 20 SF 562
20 SF 566, and from any and all funds

34
approved by the Director of Finance,
including future bond funds if issued
for this purpose, RQS 6001, RL 2016-5.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 156-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into an Interconnection Agreement with Fred. Olsen Renewables
USA LLC, a subsidiary of a Norwegian company and assignee of the
Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo), to implement the
offshore wind project known as Project Icebreaker; authorizing the
Director to enter into professional services, public improvement, and purchase contracts, leases and easements and other agreements needed
to implement the project; and authorizing the City to accept reimbursement of CPP’s costs.
Whereas, the Lake Erie Energy
Development Corporation (LEEDCo)
has developed Project Icebreaker, an
offshore wind energy project, which
will consist of six windmill generatotaling
approximately
21
tors
megawatts to be located about seven
miles northwest of Cleveland; and
Whereas, technical studies during
the project’s development identified
the Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Lake Road Substation as the preferred site to interconnect the wind
generators for the purpose of receiving and transmitting the wind-generated electricity; and
Whereas, LEEDCo has reached an
agreement with Fred. Olsen Renewables USA LLC (FORUSA), a subsidiary of Fred. Olsen Renewables
AS, a Norwegian company, to finance,
own and operate the wind energy project; and
Whereas, legislation is required to
authorize an Interconnection Agreement between the City and FORUSA
to govern the terms of the interconnection between the wind generators
and the CPP system; to authorize contracts necessary to enable CPP to
install the equipment necessary for
the interconnection; to authorize additional agreements necessary to facilitate FORUSA’s sales of the wind energy to FORUSA’s purchasers; and to
authorize the City to accept reimbursement
of
CPP’s
costs
by
FORUSA; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
an
Interconnection
Agreement
(“Agreement”) with Fred. Olsen
Renewables USA LLC (FORUSA), a
subsidiary of Fred. Olsen Renewables
AS, to govern the interconnected operations of the Icebreaker Project at the

The City Record
Lake Road Substation. The Agreement shall address subjects including
but not limited to operation, maintenance and repair procedures, equipment testing and metering, normal
and emergency operations, liability,
insurance, and compliance with
applicable national and state codes
and standards. The Agreement shall
also require reimbursement of CPP’s
costs, and the means for CPP to
accept the reimbursements from
FORUSA. The Agreement shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such terms as the Director deems appropriate to benefit and
protect the City’s interests.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts engineers, construction managers, site surveyors,
technical consultants, and other professionals for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland as necessary for the system planning, design, engineering,
and construction of the necessary
modifications and other improvements and upgrades to the Lake Road
Substation needed for the interconnection and operation of Project Icebreaker (the “Improvement”).
The selection of the consultant or
consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public utilities for the purpose of compiling such a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
authorized contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Utilities, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 3. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing
the Improvement, for CPP by one or
more contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding for a gross price
for the improvements.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding for a gross price
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a separate Improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract for a gross price. On request
of the Director, the contractor shall
furnish a correct schedule of unit
prices, including profit and overhead,
for all items constituting units of the
Improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for such permits, licenses, or
other authorizations required by any
regulatory entity or other public
authority to perform the work and
other responsibilities authorized by
this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
written agreements with FORUSA,
the regional transmission operator,
consumers of the wind energy and

496

March 30, 2016
such other entities (including LEEDCo) as may be required for CPP to
receive and utilize or transmit the
wind energy for the benefit of CPP’s
customers and FORUSA’s other energy purchasers and to perform any or
all day-to-day operational and financial tasks such as scheduling, billing,
accounting, and settlement.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written standard purchase
contracts or requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the period of the requirements to be
determined by the Director, for the
necessary items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services, and
labor and materials for installation
and maintenance, including but not
limited to transformers, structures
and foundations, circuit breakers,
relays, control equipment, switches
and meters, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for CPP. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of the items as the Board of Control
shall determine.
Section 8. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts, including the fund or funds
to which are credited the reimbursements paid to the City under the Interconnection Agreement, and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of any purchase under the
contract, each of which purchases
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 9. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 10. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, that by and at the approval of
the Director of Public Utilities and
the direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies and the Director are authorized to grant leases or easements to
FORUSA and/or LEEDCo as are necessary for the interconnection of Project Icebreaker at the Lake Road Substation.
Section 11. That any agreement or
other instrument authorized under
this ordinance shall be prepared by
the Director of Law.
Section 12. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the reimbursement funds authorized under this
ordinance, and the funds are appropriated for the purpose of reimbursing CPP for costs incurred as a result
of implementing the Improvement or
interconnection of Project Icebreaker
at the Lake Road Substation. The
Director of Public Utilities shall
deposit the reimbursement funds
received under this ordinance into a

March 30, 2016
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance.
Section 13. That the cost of any
expenditures authorized by this ordinance shall be paid from Fund 58 SF
001 and the fund or funds to which are
credited the reimbursements paid to
the City under the Interconnection
Agreement.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 191-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue permits to Crown Castle NG
East LLC to encroach into public
rights-of-way within the City of
Cleveland by installing, using, and
maintaining distributed antenna system nodes to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power, the Illuminating Company, and AT&T utility poles (by separate permission of the poles’ owners), and by installing, using, and
maintaining duct banks connecting
existing AT&T manholes and ground
or pole cabinets for the nodes.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue one
or more permits, revocable at the will
of Council, to Crown Castle NG East
LLC, 2000 Corporate Drive, Canonburg, PA 15317 (“Permittee”) to
encroach into various public rightsof-way within the City of Cleveland
by installing, using, and maintaining
distributed antenna system nodes to
be attached to Cleveland Public
Power, the Illuminating Company,
and AT&T utility poles (by separate
permission of the poles’ owners), and
by installing, using, and maintaining
duct banks connecting existing
AT&T manholes and ground or pole
cabinets for the nodes. The permit(s)
shall not be issued until the Manager
of the Division of Engineering and
Construction and the Director of Capital Projects have first reviewed and
approved each specific node and duct
bank encroachment location that Permittee requests.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign a permit only with the written
consent of the Director of Capital Projects. That nothing in this ordinance
grants or shall be considered to grant
to Permittee any right, privilege, or
permission to use, or to attach or affix
any object to, poles; Permittee shall
obtain such permission from the
respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching
objects permitted by this ordinance
shall conform to plans and specifications first approved by the Manager
of Engineering and Construction.
That Permittee shall obtain all other
required permits, including but not

The City Record
limited to Building Permits, before
installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit(s) authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The permit(s) shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, a prospective
Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 5. That the Permit shall
reserve reasonable right of entry to
the encroachment locations to the
City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 259-16.
By Council Members Zone, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with the Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan
Park District to allow improvements
to the former U.S. Coast Guard Station
and to accept the improvements as a
gift to the City; and authorizing the
director to enter into a property adoption agreement with the Park District
to maintain the improvements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with the
Board of Park Commissioners for the
Cleveland Metropolitan Park District
(“Metroparks”) to allow it to construct improvements to the former
U.S. Coast Guard Station, including
but not limited to, repairing the exterior facade concrete, painting the
exterior, installing new man and
overhead doors, and windows, constructing a temporary lookout tower
access, replacing the garage roof, and
installing
landscaping
improvements, and to accept the improvements as a gift to the City.
The
agreement
will
allow
Metroparks to oversee construction
activities. All improvements will be
approved by the appropriate City official.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 and Section
133.24 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a property adoption
agreement with the Metroparks, for
the maintenance of the improvements
at the former U.S. Coast Guard Station, more fully described as follows:
Situated in the State of Ohio and
known as being part of Lake Erie and
a fill portion thereof. Said area lies

497

35
Northerly of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 51 and is further bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
Northeasterly line of Riverbed Street
N.W. (80 feet wide) in the City of
Cleveland with the dock line of the
ship channel as described in Section
1.0342 (12) of the Political Code of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
Thence North 09°-48'-05" East, along
the established dock line, 26.47 feet to
an angle point therein. Thence North
08°-55'-05" West, continuing along
the established dock line, 106.00 feet
to an angle point therein. Thence
North 29°-01'-40" West, continuing
along the established dock line,
1623.42 feet to the present harbor line
as established by the United States
Government. Thence South 55°-08'-40"
West, along the present harbor line,
19.54 feet to the Southwesterly side of
a concrete pier. Said point being the
principal place of beginning of the
area herein described;
Course 1:
Thence South 29°-02'-33" East,
along the Southwesterly side of said
concrete pier, 89.51 feet to a point;
Course 2:
Thence South 60°-57'-27" West,
162.44 feet to a point. Said point being
in the Southeasterly prolongation of
the Southwesterly face of a steel wall;
Course 3:
Thence North 33°-48'-41" West,
along said Southeasterly prolongation of the Southwesterly face of said
steel wall and along the Southwesterly face of said steel wall, 355.00 feet to
a point of curvature therein;
Course 4:
Thence Northeasterly along the arc
of a curve deflecting to the right, continuing along the face of said steel
wall, 80.54 feet to the point of tangency therein. Said arc having a
radius of 48.85 feet and a chord which
bears North 13°-25'-12.5" East, 71.72
feet;
Course 5:
Thence North 60°-39'-06" East,
along the Northwesterly face of said
steel wall, 143.53 feet to a point in the
Southwesterly side of the concrete
pier as aforesaid;
Course 6:
Thence South 29°-02'-33" East,
along the Southwesterly side of said
concrete pier 317.93 feet to the principal place of beginning and containing
1.6620 Acres of Area. Be the same
more or less but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That the property adoption shall not be construed as a conveyance of any right, title, or interest
in public property, but is the grant of
a privilege revocable at the will of
Council.
Section 4. That the agreements
authorized in this ordinance shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5 That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

36
Ord. No. 291-16.
By Council Members Keane, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. CAL 1989 for Concourse “C” and
Contract No. CAL 1997 for Concourse
“D” with United Airlines, Inc. fka
Continental Airlines, Inc. to transfer
certain ancillary facilities from one
lease to the other, to extend the term
of the Concourse “C” lease, and to
change other terms of the leases in
order to restate and memorialize United’s presence at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, for the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 272989, passed December 11, 1989, and
Ordinance No. 561-97, passed June 2,
1997, this Council, among other
things, authorized the Mayor, Director of Port Control, and Director of
Finance to enter into special facilities
agreements and leases with Continental Airlines, Inc, nka United Airlines,
Inc. (“United”) to implement Continental’s Expansion Program on Concourses “C” and “D” at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and
Whereas, due to United’s decision
to discontinue its use of Concourse D,
United desires to amend the agreement and leases authorized by Ordinance Nos. 2729-89 and 561-97; and
Whereas, United desires to amend
the Concourse C lease to enable it to
consolidate its operations to be exclusively operated from Concourse “C”,
and to extend the Concourse C lease
term for ten years to December 31,
2029; and
Whereas, the City has no objections
to
the
amendments
negotiated
between the City and United and
approves the modification of the
terms and conditions of the agreements and leases regarding Concourses “C” and “D” as set forth herein and
as authorized by Ordinance Nos. 272989 and 561-97; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Port Control
is authorized to amend City Contract
No. CAL 1989 with United Airlines,
Inc. fka Continental Airlines, Inc.,
concerning an agreement and lease
for Concourse “C” at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, to provide
for the following:
(a) The transfer of ancillary facilities from the Concourse “D” Lease,
Contract No. CAL 1997 (“Concourse
“D” Lease”) to the Concourse “C”
Lease, Contract No. 1989 (“Concourse
“C” Lease”). The ancillary facilities
include the Airline Lounge (“United
Club”) which is approximately 10,601
square feet; Baggage Claim Carousel
#11 which is approximately 3,753
square feet; approximately 3,500
square feet of ramp level office and
support space located below the United Club constructed for an incident
center and group room; the Inline
Baggage System which is constructed
and contained within approximately
15,208 square feet of the leased
premises (bag make-up area); the
underground hydrant fueling system
premises; and the deicing pad special

The City Record
premises consisting of approximately
3.7 acres;
(b) United to consolidate operations in the Concourse “C” Rotunda
gates;
(c) United will be required to pay
allocated operational and maintenance costs attributable to the Concourse “C” Rotunda space in accordance with current rates and charges
methodology;
(d) United will increase the leased
premises from 82,825 square feet to
96,926 square feet under the Concourse C lease to accommodate the
additional 10,601 square feet resulting from the United Club transfer
from the Concourse “D” Lease and
3,500 square feet of operations space
under the United Club also transferred from the Concourse “D” Lease;
(e) The City and United will extend
the lease term from December 31, 2019
to December 31, 2029; and
(f) Other terms and conditions
needed to protect the City’s interest.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Port Control
is authorized to amend City Contract
No. CAL 1997 with United Airlines,
Inc. fka Continental Airlines, Inc.
concerning an agreement and lease
for Concourse “D” at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, to provide
for the following:
(a) The transfer of ancillary facilities from the Concourse “D” Lease,
Contract No. CAL 1997 (“Concourse
“D” Lease”) to the Concourse “C”
Lease, Contract No. 1989 (“Concourse
“C” Lease”). The ancillary facilities
include the Airline Lounge (“United
Club”) which is approximately 10,601
square feet; Baggage Claim Carousel
#11 which is approximately 3,753
square feet; approximately 3,500
square feet of ramp level office and
support space located below the United Club constructed for an incident
center and group room; the Inline
Baggage System which is constructed
and contained within approximately
15, 208 square feet of the leased
premises (bag make-up area); the
underground hydrant fueling system
premises; and the deicing pad special
premises consisting of approximately
3.7 acres;
(b) The leased premises on Concourse “D” will remain at 73,609
square feet. However, United will be
responsible for all related costs for
the entire concourse and out to five
(5) feet from the building onto the
ramp; and
(c) The City and United agree that
there will be no change to the expiration date of the Concourse “D” lease
and it will expire on May 31, 2029;
(d) United shall have the right, at
any time during the Term, to make a
lump sum payment to the Bond
Trustee for pre-payment of the entire
outstanding balance of the debt service of the Concourse “D” GARBs that
remain outstanding at such time.
(e) Other terms and conditions
needed to protect the City’s interest.
Section 3. That the amendments
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect

498

March 30, 2016
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 329-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Supreme Court of Ohio for the Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $202,800, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term from
the Supreme Court of Ohio to conduct
the Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in the legislative summary for the grant contained
in the file described below.
Section 2. That the legislative summary for the grant, File No. 329-16-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 334-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$625,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve municipal parks and
recreation facilities and authorizing
related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $625,000) (the
“Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section  1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with the
proceeds of the Bonds is at least five
years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 11  years, as evidenced by the certificate contained in
File No. 334-16-A; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,

March 30, 2016
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and
as the same may further be amended
from time to time in accordance with
its provisions, is referred to as the
“General Bond Ordinance”), providing the general terms and provisions
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of bonds in accordance with the provisions thereof
(the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary to
provide funds to pay the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 hereof that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$625,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve municipal parks and
recreation facilities by constructing,
reconstructing, installing, renovating, enlarging, redeveloping and otherwise improving parks and recreation centers and areas, pools, skating rinks, greenhouses, bicycle paths,
playfields,
tracks,
playgrounds,
fields and related buildings, structures, walkways, safety surfaces,
pavement, plazas, landscaping and
facilities, and providing necessary
water systems, drainage, lighting,
signage, fixtures, furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site
improvements, together with all necessary and incidental appurtenances
and the acquisition of any required
real estate and interests in real estate
and the demolition of any existing
buildings, structures, walkways and
facilities, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section  133.01(K) of the Ohio Revised
Code and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section  133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms. The
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
provisions of Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code and other applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the General Bond Ordinance and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be designated “Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds” and may
contain such further designation as
provided in the certificate of award
providing for the final terms of the
Bonds and the sale of the Bonds
signed by the Director of Finance in
accordance with this Ordinance (the
“Certificate of Award”). The Bonds
shall be issued in one lot as fully registered Bonds in denominations of

The City Record
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the Certificate of Award, which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section 1
hereof. The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance and shall bear interest from their date until the principal
amount is paid at the rate or rates per
year specified in the Certificate of
Award, provided that the weighted
average of such rates (taking into
account the principal amount and
maturity of each Bond to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed 6.00% per
year. Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable when due, or until the principal amount is paid, semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 of each year
that the Bonds are outstanding, commencing June 1, 2016 (the “Interest
Payment Dates”), unless otherwise
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as shall
be permitted by law and determined
by the Director of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based
on the written advice of a financial
advisor (as defined in Section 16) to
be in the best interests of the City,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier
than November 15, 2016 and no later
than August 1, 2018, (iii) the final
maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later than 11 years from that date
which is 12 months prior to the first
date on which provision for payment
of principal is made, and (iv) the principal amount thereof shall be payable
in annual installments such that the
total principal and interest payments
on the Bonds in any fiscal year in
which principal is payable is not more
than three times the amount of those
payments in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in any
year may be issued as term bonds (the
“Term Bonds”), payable pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall

499

37
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
the
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined in
Section  3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against the then-current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City for
any Term Bonds. That option shall be
exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, by
furnishing the Escrow Agent a certificate, signed by the Registrar, setting forth the extent of the credit to
be applied with respect to the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corremandatory
redemption
sponding
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by the
Escrow Agent at 100% of the principal amount thereof against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation). Any excess of that
amount over the then-current Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirement
shall
be
credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the option
of the City, in whole or in part on any
date, in integral multiples of $5,000,
on the optional redemption dates and
at the redemption prices (expressed
as a percentage of the principal
amount redeemed) specified in the
Certificate of Award, plus, in each
case, accrued interest to the redemption date. The first optional redemption date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment
Date, and the highest redemption
price shall not be greater than 102%
of the principal amount redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date. Based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the best
interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take

38
place as of any applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, the Bonds, or portions thereof, to be redeemed optionally shall be selected by lot prior to
the selection by lot of the Bonds to be
redeemed on the same date by operation of the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
only upon written notice from the
Director of Finance to the Registrar.
That notice shall specify the redemption date and the principal amount of
each maturity of Bonds to be
redeemed, and shall be given at least
45 days prior to the redemption date
or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Registrar. There
shall be deposited with the Registrar
on or prior to the redemption date
funds sufficient to redeem at the
price
all
of
the
redemption
redeemable Bonds for which notice of
redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City may
elect to purchase Bonds called for
optional redemption in lieu of redeeming those Bonds. That election shall
be exercised by written direction
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent.
That written direction shall state
whether all or less than all of the
Bonds called for optional redemption
are to be purchased by the City in lieu
of redemption, shall identify the
Bonds to be purchased by their maturity date and shall specify the principal amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for optional redemption are to be purchased in
lieu of redemption, the amount of
each maturity to be purchased shall
be in amounts of $5,000 or integral
multiples of $5,000. Any Bonds called
for optional redemption that are not
to be purchased shall be redeemed in
accordance with their redemption provisions. The purchase price of the
Bonds to be purchased in lieu of
redemption shall be equal to the principal of, any accrued but unpaid interest on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners of
the Bonds in addition to the notice of
redemption required by this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, shall not purchase Bonds if sufficient moneys
have not been deposited with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, by the City for the purpose. On
or prior to the scheduled date for
optional redemption, the City may
rescind its direction to purchase the
Bonds in lieu of redemption by written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. In the event that the
direction to purchase is rescinded, the
Bonds shall be redeemed on the
redemption date set forth in the notice
of redemption delivered to the owners
of the Bonds and in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption at one time (whether for redemption or purchase in lieu of redemption), they shall be called in the order
of maturities directed by the Director

The City Record
of Finance. If fewer than all Bonds of
a single maturity are to be redeemed
or purchased in lieu of redemption,
the selection of Bonds to be redeemed
or purchased, or portions thereof in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the
Registrar by lot in a manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of
a partial redemption or purchase of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of the
denomination of $5,000. If it is determined that one or more, but not all of
the $5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be called
for redemption, then upon notice of
redemption of a $5,000 unit or units,
the registered owner of that Bond
shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption
or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued to the date fixed for redemption and any premium), and (ii) for
issuance, without charge to the registered owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured portion of the Bond not
redeemed or purchased and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the amounts
due upon redemption are payable.
The notice shall be given by the Registrar on behalf of the City by mailing
a copy of the redemption notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, at
least 30 days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part at the registered owner’s address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of
business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any provider
of a Credit Support Instrument (as
defined in Section 15 hereof) for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Bond, however, shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may specify that the redemption is contingent
on the deposit of moneys with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, on or prior to the redemption
date in an amount sufficient to pay
the redemption price of the Bonds to
be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the manner provided in the preceding paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the Escrow
Agent or Registrar, as paying agent,
in an amount sufficient to pay the
redemption price, the Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption
shall become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or

500

March 30, 2016
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption
of all of the Bonds and portions thereof to be redeemed, including interest
accrued to the redemption date, is
held by the Registrar on the redemption date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the
redemption date, or that notice shall
not have been deposited in the mail,
those Bonds and portions thereof
shall continue to bear interest, until
they are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money held
by the Registrar for the redemption of
particular Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered owners and shall be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without
deduction for the services of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent. Principal shall be payable
when due upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid
on each Interest Payment Date by
check or draft mailed to the person in
whose name the Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register (as defined
in Section  3 hereof) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Registrar Agreement authorized and
defined in Section  3 hereof (the
“Record Date”). Notwithstanding any
contrary provision in the General
Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds
are held by a Depository in a bookentry system (as described in Section  3 hereof), debt charges on the
Bonds will be payable in lawful
money of the United States by wire
transfer to the Depository made by
the Escrow Agent on each Interest
Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance. The General Bond Ordinance, except for the third paragraph
of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment of the interest
rate in an event of default) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 (pertaining generally to the periods during
which the City is not required to make
any transfers or exchanges of bonds
issued under the General Bond Ordinance), will apply to the Bonds.
Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a
part of this Ordinance as fully as if
restated in this Ordinance. Words and
terms not otherwise defined in this
Ordinance shall have the same meaning as set forth in the General Bond
Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of the
Bonds; Paying Agents. The Bonds
shall express upon their faces the purpose for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance. Pursuant to Section  4 of
the General Bond Ordinance, each
Bond shall be authenticated by the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee (as defined
therein). The Bonds shall be signed

March 30, 2016
by the City’s Mayor and by the City’s
Director of Finance, and, consistent
with Section  133.27 of the Ohio
Revised Code and notwithstanding
Section  177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either or both of
those signatures may be a facsimile.
The Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section  83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Bonds and shall
endorse thereon the Director of Law’s
approval of the form thereof by the
Director of Law’s manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, bond registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Bonds (the
“Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall
also act as paying agent for the Bonds
so long as the Bonds are held in a
book-entry system. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, an agreement among the
City, Registrar and Escrow Agent
(the
“Registrar
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, providing for services relating
to
the
registration,
transfer,
exchange and payment of the Bonds
on terms approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City and consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City.
That approval shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Registrar Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available and then from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at its
principal corporate trust office all
books and records necessary for the
registration, exchange and transfer
of Bonds as provided in this Section
(the “Bond Register”). The person in
whose name a Bond is registered on
the Bond Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Bond, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender
at the principal corporate trust office
of the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond may
be transferred only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender
of the Bond at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar together
with an assignment signed by the registered owner or by a person legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar

The City Record
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or
other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid obligations of
the City, evidencing the same debt,
and entitled to the same security and
benefit under this Ordinance, as the
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book-entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book-entry form” or “book-entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds and the principal of and interest on the Bonds may
be transferred only through a book
entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are
issued by the City only to a Depository or its nominee as registered owner,
with the Bonds “immobilized” in the
custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than the
City is the record that identifies the
owners of beneficial interests in those
Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book-entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds, in book-entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book-entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers,
banks and trust companies, and clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book-entry
system and, if and as long as a bookentry system is utilized: (i) the Bonds
may be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Bond representing
each maturity and registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository;

501

39
(ii) the beneficial owners in bookentry form shall have no right to
receive Bonds in the form of physical
securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in bookentry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry by
the Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Bonds as such shall not
be transferable or exchangeable,
except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a Depository, without further action by the
City.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Bonds for use in a book-entry system,
the Director of Finance may attempt
establish
a
securities
to
depository/book-entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Registrar, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and Registrar shall authenticate and deliver
bond certificates in registered form to
the assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized to the extent necessary or required to enter into any
agreements determined necessary in
connection with the book-entry system for the Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of the
form of any such agreement by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The Bonds
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Bonds and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to the
Original Purchaser in the Certificate
of Award which shall specify the
final terms of the Bonds in accordance with law, the provisions of this
Ordinance, the written advice of a
financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Bonds, the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount of
the Bonds plus any accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), the Interest Payment
Dates and the date of the Bonds and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of

40
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and
certificates, to cause a true transcript
of proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City a
bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Bonds and the Original Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds, which
shall be consistent with this Ordinance, not substantially adverse to
the City, and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in this
Ordinance and as may be provided in
or pursuant to the Certificate of
Award, are in the best interest of the
City and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds with
other bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bonds, Series 2016” or such other designation as may be set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Such bonds
shall contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Bonds are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds promptly when and as the same falls due,
and also to provide for the discharge
of the Bonds at maturity, there shall
be and is levied on all the taxable
property in the City, in addition to all
other taxes, a direct tax annually during the period the Bonds are outstanding, in an amount sufficient to
provide for the payment of that interest, when and as the same shall fall
due, and also to discharge the principal of the Bonds at maturity, which
tax shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be within the ten-mill
limitation imposed by law, shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same

The City Record
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general
purposes for each of those years are
certified, extended and collected, and
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the full
amount thereof. The funds derived
from those tax levies shall be placed
in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the Sinking Fund as
required by the General Bond Ordinance, and those funds, together with
the interest collected on them, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same fall
due; provided, however, that, subject
to the provisions of Section  8 of the
General Bond Ordinance, in each year
to the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of
such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available
and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections  133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt charges
for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds are
issued. The proceeds of the Bonds to
be applied to pay costs of any Credit
Support Instruments obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be
paid to the provider or providers of
those Credit Support Instruments.
The proceeds of the Bonds to be used
to pay costs of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar
Agreement pending their application
to the payment of such costs. Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance, and
notwithstanding Chapter 179 of the
Codified Ordinances, any accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges and
liens authorized by the General Bond
Ordinance and, in addition to the
taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Bonds are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section  5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordi-

502

March 30, 2016
nance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and
discharged all the outstanding Bonds,
or there shall otherwise be paid to the
holders of the outstanding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or subaccounts, in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or
redemption dates, of all debt charges
on the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the date
of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds are to be
redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall
have been duly given or irrevocable
provision satisfactory to the Trustee
shall have been duly made for the giving of such notice. Any moneys held
by the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient
to meet payment of debt charges on
the Bonds, as directed by the Director
of Finance. Any income or interest
earned by, or increment to, the investments held under this Section shall, to
the extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of
such determination as provided in
Section  17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent. In the event of
nonpresentment of any Bond as
described in Section 17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held

March 30, 2016
pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section  17(a) for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof, notes of the City may be
issued in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $625,000 (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the  “Note Certificate of
Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding 4.00% per year, as may be
fixed by the Director of Finance of
the City in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be dated their date of
issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award,
which shall be no later than five
years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, provided that, if the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated
“Parks and Recreation Facilities
Bond
Anticipation
Improvement
Notes”; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book-entry only system)
in denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semiannually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth month following their date of
issuance, interest on the Notes shall
be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Notes (the “Note
Registrar”). The Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the
Notes if the Notes are held in a bookentry system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the “Note
Registrar Agreement”) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes on terms that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Note Registrar to maintain and keep

The City Record
at its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Note shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither
the City nor the Note Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination
upon presentation and surrender at
the principal corporate trust office of
the Note Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. A Note
may be transferred only on the Note
Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer the
Registrar
shall
complete,
Note
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by
the owner equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of
the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Note Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Note Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Note Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Notes issued and authenticated upon any exchange or transfer shall be valid obligations of the
City, evidencing the same debt, and
entitled to the same security and benefit under this Ordinance, as the Notes
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes with
other bond anticipation notes of the
City for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for
which the Notes are issued and shall
state that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance.

503

41
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which they
are issued and that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance. Each Note
shall be authenticated by the manual
signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance, and, consistent with Section
133.27 of the Ohio Revised Code and
notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City,
either or both of those signatures may
be a facsimile. The Notes shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes and
shall endorse thereon the Director of
Law’s approval of the form thereof by
the Director of Law’s manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Notes and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the
principal amount set forth in a certificate of award to be executed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”) at not less than par
and accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section 10
hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund and
used for the purpose for which the
Notes are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Notes are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance. The par value to be received
from the sale of the Bonds or of any
renewal notes and any excess funds
resulting from the issuance of the
Notes shall, to the extent necessary,
be used to pay the debt charges on the
Notes at maturity and are pledged for
that purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all the
taxable property in the City, in addition to all other taxes but within tax
limitations, a direct tax annually not
less than that which would have been
levied if bonds had been issued therefor without the prior issue of the
Notes. That tax shall be and is

42
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers, in
the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes
for each year are certified, extended
and collected. That tax shall be
placed before and in preference to all
other items and for the full amount
thereof. The funds derived from the
tax levies required by this Ordinance
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account, and
those funds, together with the interest collected on them, shall be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the
principal and interest of the Notes or
the Bonds in anticipation of which
they are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues
are available from other sources for
the payment of the Notes and Bonds
and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of such direct tax
upon all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate,
which shall constitute the continuing

The City Record
disclosure agreement made by the
City for the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners of the Notes or the
Bonds, as the case may be, in accordance with the SEC Rule. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and
their annual appropriation to meet
costs the City would be required to
incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Bonds and
the Notes authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed
to alter or restrict such full application of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Bonds and the Notes authorized herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a) and
the third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant to
Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are for
convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections of
this Ordinance.
Section 14. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Notes and the Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds
or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141
or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the “Code”) or (ii)
be treated other than as bonds the
interest on which is excluded from
gross income under Section 103 of the
Code, and (b) the interest thereon
will not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section  57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Notes and the
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Notes and the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds is

504

March 30, 2016
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds as
the City is permitted or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section  148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts or
payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing
and signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf of
the City, as may be appropriate to
assure the exclusion of interest from
gross income and the intended tax
status of the Notes and the Bonds, and
(c) to give one or more appropriate
certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting forth
the reasonable expectations of the
City regarding the amount and use of
all the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Bonds
or any Notes (a “Credit Support
Instrument”).
The
Director
of
Finance may request a rating on the
Bonds or Notes from one or more
nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things and
take any and all actions required to
secure a Credit Support Instrument
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds or Notes. The Director of
Finance may enter into one or more
agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing terms not materially inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Bonds or Notes to the extent available
and otherwise from any other funds
lawfully available that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this

March 30, 2016
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and any
Note Certificate of Award to the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 20. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.

The City Record
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 335-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$4,750,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve buildings and structures housing and providing for the
discharge of governmental functions
and services otherwise benefiting the
public safety, health and welfare and
for the provision of necessary fixtures, furnishings, equipment, technology, appurtenances, utilities, and
site improvements for the purpose
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $4,750,000 (the
“Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section  1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with the
proceeds of the Bonds is at least five
years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 10  years, as evidenced by the certificate contained in
File No. 335-16-A; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and
as the same may further be amended
from time to time in accordance with
its provisions, is referred to as the
“General Bond Ordinance”), providing the general terms and provisions
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of bonds in accordance with the provisions thereof
(the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and

505

43
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary to
provide funds to pay the costs of cerpermanent
improvements
tain
described in Section 1 hereof that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$4,750,000 for the purpose of providing
funds for constructing, reconstructing, installing, renovating, enlarging
and otherwise improving buildings
and structures housing and providing
for the discharge of governmental
functions and services otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and
welfare, including facilities in, of and
for the City Hall, police stations, fire
stations, service stations, centers and
facilities, waste collection, market
facilities, transfer and disposal facilities, correctional facilities, and
health and other facilities, to improve
technology used in providing city services, including telecommunications
equipment and computer hardware
and software, and for the provision of
necessary
fixtures,
furnishings,
equipment,
technology,
appurtenances, utilities, and site improvements for the purpose, and to pay any
capitalized interest and all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the securities, including
all financing costs within the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the Ohio
Revised Code and such other costs of
the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with the
proceeds of securities as permitted by
Section 133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms. The
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
provisions of Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code and other applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the General Bond Ordinance and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bonds” and may contain such
further designation as provided in the
certificate of award providing for the
final terms of the Bonds and the sale
of the Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the Certificate of Award, which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section 1
hereof. The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance and shall bear interest from their date until the principal
amount is paid at the rate or rates per
year specified in the Certificate of
Award, provided that the weighted
average of such rates (taking into
account the principal amount and
maturity of each Bond to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed 6.00% per

44
year. Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable when due, or until the principal amount is paid, semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 of each year
that the Bonds are outstanding, commencing June 1, 2016 (the “Interest
Payment Dates”), unless otherwise
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as shall
be permitted by law and determined
by the Director of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based
on the written advice of a financial
advisor (as defined in Section 16) to
be in the best interests of the City,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier
than November 15, 2016 and no later
than August 1, 2018, (iii) the final
maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later than 10 years from that date
which is 12 months prior to the first
date on which provision for payment
of principal is made, and (iv) the principal amount thereof shall be payable
in annual installments such that the
total principal and interest payments
on the Bonds in any fiscal year in
which principal is payable is not more
than three times the amount of those
payments in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in any
year may be issued as term bonds (the
“Term Bonds”), payable pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined in
Section  3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against the then-current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City for

The City Record
any Term Bonds. That option shall be
exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, by
furnishing the Escrow Agent a certificate, signed by the Registrar, setting forth the extent of the credit to
be applied with respect to the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
the
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by the
Escrow Agent at 100% of the principal amount thereof against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation). Any excess of that
amount over the then-current Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirement
shall
be
credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
corresponding
mandatory
(and
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the option
of the City, in whole or in part on any
date, in integral multiples of $5,000,
on the optional redemption dates and
at the redemption prices (expressed
as a percentage of the principal
amount redeemed) specified in the
Certificate of Award, plus, in each
case, accrued interest to the redemption date. The first optional redemption date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment
Date, and the highest redemption
price shall not be greater than 102%
of the principal amount redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date. Based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the best
interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, the Bonds, or portions thereof, to be redeemed optionally shall be selected by lot prior to
the selection by lot of the Bonds to be
redeemed on the same date by operation of the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
only upon written notice from the
Director of Finance to the Registrar.
That notice shall specify the redemption date and the principal amount of
each maturity of Bonds to be
redeemed, and shall be given at least

506

March 30, 2016
45 days prior to the redemption date
or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Registrar. There
shall be deposited with the Registrar
on or prior to the redemption date
funds sufficient to redeem at the
price
all
of
the
redemption
redeemable Bonds for which notice of
redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City may
elect to purchase Bonds called for
optional redemption in lieu of redeeming those Bonds. That election shall
be exercised by written direction
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent.
That written direction shall state
whether all or less than all of the
Bonds called for optional redemption
are to be purchased by the City in lieu
of redemption, shall identify the
Bonds to be purchased by their maturity date and shall specify the principal amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for optional redemption are to be purchased in
lieu of redemption, the amount of
each maturity to be purchased shall
be in amounts of $5,000 or integral
multiples of $5,000. Any Bonds called
for optional redemption that are not
to be purchased shall be redeemed in
accordance with their redemption provisions. The purchase price of the
Bonds to be purchased in lieu of
redemption shall be equal to the principal of, any accrued but unpaid interest on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners of
the Bonds in addition to the notice of
redemption required by this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, shall not purchase Bonds if sufficient moneys
have not been deposited with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, by the City for the purpose. On
or prior to the scheduled date for
optional redemption, the City may
rescind its direction to purchase the
Bonds in lieu of redemption by written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. In the event that the
direction to purchase is rescinded, the
Bonds shall be redeemed on the
redemption date set forth in the notice
of redemption delivered to the owners
of the Bonds and in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption at one time (whether for redemption or purchase in lieu of redemption), they shall be called in the order
of maturities directed by the Director
of Finance. If fewer than all Bonds of
a single maturity are to be redeemed
or purchased in lieu of redemption,
the selection of Bonds to be redeemed
or purchased, or portions thereof in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the
Registrar by lot in a manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of
a partial redemption or purchase of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of the
denomination of $5,000. If it is determined that one or more, but not all of

March 30, 2016
the $5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be called
for redemption, then upon notice of
redemption of a $5,000 unit or units,
the registered owner of that Bond
shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption
or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued to the date fixed for redemption and any premium), and (ii) for
issuance, without charge to the registered owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured portion of the Bond not
redeemed or purchased and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the amounts
due upon redemption are payable.
The notice shall be given by the Registrar on behalf of the City by mailing
a copy of the redemption notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, at
least 30 days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part at the registered owner’s address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of
business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any provider
of a Credit Support Instrument (as
defined in Section 15 hereof) for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Bond, however, shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may specify that the redemption is contingent
on the deposit of moneys with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, on or prior to the redemption
date in an amount sufficient to pay
the redemption price of the Bonds to
be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the manner provided in the preceding paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the Escrow
Agent or Registrar, as paying agent,
in an amount sufficient to pay the
redemption price, the Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption
shall become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption
of all of the Bonds and portions thereof to be redeemed, including interest
accrued to the redemption date, is
held by the Registrar on the redemption date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the
redemption date, or that notice shall
not have been deposited in the mail,
those Bonds and portions thereof

The City Record
shall continue to bear interest, until
they are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money held
by the Registrar for the redemption of
particular Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered owners and shall be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without
deduction for the services of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent. Principal shall be payable
when due upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid
on each Interest Payment Date by
check or draft mailed to the person in
whose name the Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register (as defined
in Section  3 hereof) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Registrar Agreement authorized and
defined in Section  3 hereof (the
“Record Date”). Notwithstanding any
contrary provision in the General
Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds
are held by a Depository in a bookentry system (as described in Section  3 hereof), debt charges on the
Bonds will be payable in lawful
money of the United States by wire
transfer to the Depository made by
the Escrow Agent on each Interest
Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance. The General Bond Ordinance, except for the third paragraph
of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment of the interest
rate in an event of default) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 (pertaining generally to the periods during
which the City is not required to make
any transfers or exchanges of bonds
issued under the General Bond Ordinance), will apply to the Bonds.
Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a
part of this Ordinance as fully as if
restated in this Ordinance. Words and
terms not otherwise defined in this
Ordinance shall have the same meaning as set forth in the General Bond
Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of the
Bonds; Paying Agents. The Bonds
shall express upon their faces the purpose for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance. Pursuant to Section  4 of
the General Bond Ordinance, each
Bond shall be authenticated by the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee (as defined
therein). The Bonds shall be signed
by the City’s Mayor and by the City’s
Director of Finance, and, consistent
with Section  133.27 of the Ohio
Revised Code and notwithstanding
Section  177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either or both of
those signatures may be a facsimile.
The Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section  83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Bonds and shall
endorse thereon the Director of Law’s
approval of the form thereof by the
Director of Law’s manual or facsimile
signature.

507

45
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, bond registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Bonds (the
“Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall
also act as paying agent for the Bonds
so long as the Bonds are held in a
book-entry system. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, an agreement among the
City, Registrar and Escrow Agent
(the
“Registrar
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, providing for services relating
to
the
registration,
transfer,
exchange and payment of the Bonds
on terms approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City and consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City.
That approval shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Registrar Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available and then from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at its
principal corporate trust office all
books and records necessary for the
registration, exchange and transfer
of Bonds as provided in this Section
(the “Bond Register”). The person in
whose name a Bond is registered on
the Bond Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Bond, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender
at the principal corporate trust office
of the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond may
be transferred only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender
of the Bond at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar together
with an assignment signed by the registered owner or by a person legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of

46
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or
other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid obligations of
the City, evidencing the same debt,
and entitled to the same security and
benefit under this Ordinance, as the
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book-entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book-entry form” or “book-entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds and the principal of and interest on the Bonds may
be transferred only through a book
entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are
issued by the City only to a Depository or its nominee as registered owner,
with the Bonds “immobilized” in the
custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than the
City is the record that identifies the
owners of beneficial interests in those
Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book-entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds, in book-entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book-entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers,
banks and trust companies, and clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book-entry
system and, if and as long as a bookentry system is utilized: (i) the Bonds
may be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Bond representing
each maturity and registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository;
(ii) the beneficial owners in bookentry form shall have no right to
receive Bonds in the form of physical
securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in bookentry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry by
the Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Bonds as such shall not

The City Record
be transferable or exchangeable,
except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a Depository, without further action by the
City.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Bonds for use in a book-entry system,
the Director of Finance may attempt
to
establish
a
securities
depository/book-entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Registrar, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and Registrar shall authenticate and deliver
bond certificates in registered form to
the assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized to the extent necessary or required to enter into any
agreements determined necessary in
connection with the book-entry system for the Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of the
form of any such agreement by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The Bonds
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Bonds and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to the
Original Purchaser in the Certificate
of Award which shall specify the
final terms of the Bonds in accordance with law, the provisions of this
Ordinance, the written advice of a
financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Bonds, the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount of
the Bonds plus any accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), the Interest Payment
Dates and the date of the Bonds and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to

508

March 30, 2016
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and
certificates, to cause a true transcript
of proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City a
bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Bonds and the Original Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds, which
shall be consistent with this Ordinance, not substantially adverse to
the City, and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in this
Ordinance and as may be provided in
or pursuant to the Certificate of
Award, are in the best interest of the
City and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds with
other bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bonds, Series 2016” or such other designation as may be set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Such bonds
shall contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Bonds are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds promptly when and as the same falls due,
and also to provide for the discharge
of the Bonds at maturity, there shall
be and is levied on all the taxable
property in the City, in addition to all
other taxes, a direct tax annually during the period the Bonds are outstanding, in an amount sufficient to
provide for the payment of that interest, when and as the same shall fall
due, and also to discharge the principal of the Bonds at maturity, which
tax shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be within the ten-mill
limitation imposed by law, shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general
purposes for each of those years are
certified, extended and collected, and
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the full
amount thereof. The funds derived

March 30, 2016
from those tax levies shall be placed
in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the Sinking Fund as
required by the General Bond Ordinance, and those funds, together with
the interest collected on them, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same fall
due; provided, however, that, subject
to the provisions of Section  8 of the
General Bond Ordinance, in each year
to the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of
such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available
and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections  133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt charges
for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds are
issued. The proceeds of the Bonds to
be applied to pay costs of any Credit
Support Instruments obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be
paid to the provider or providers of
those Credit Support Instruments.
The proceeds of the Bonds to be used
to pay costs of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar
Agreement pending their application
to the payment of such costs. Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance, and
notwithstanding Chapter 179 of the
Codified Ordinances, any accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges and
liens authorized by the General Bond
Ordinance and, in addition to the
taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Bonds are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and

The City Record
discharged all the outstanding Bonds,
or there shall otherwise be paid to the
holders of the outstanding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or subaccounts, in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or
redemption dates, of all debt charges
on the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the date
of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds are to be
redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall
have been duly given or irrevocable
provision satisfactory to the Trustee
shall have been duly made for the giving of such notice. Any moneys held
by the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient
to meet payment of debt charges on
the Bonds, as directed by the Director
of Finance. Any income or interest
earned by, or increment to, the investments held under this Section shall, to
the extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of
such determination as provided in
Section  17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent. In the event of
nonpresentment of any Bond as
described in Section 17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held
pursuant to this Section shall be held

509

47
and paid as provided in said Section  17(a) for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof, notes of the City may be
issued in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $4,750,000 (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the  “Note Certificate of
Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding 4.00% per year, as may be
fixed by the Director of Finance of
the City in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be dated their date of
issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award,
which shall be no later than five
years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, provided that, if the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bond
Anticipation Notes”; shall be issued in
such numbers and denominations as
may be requested by the Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined); and
shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book-entry
only system) in denominations of
$5,000 or integral multiples thereof.
Interest shall be payable semiannually on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that if
the Notes mature on or before the end
of the twelfth month following their
date of issuance, interest on the Notes
shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Notes (the “Note
Registrar”). The Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the
Notes if the Notes are held in a bookentry system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the “Note
Registrar Agreement”) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes on terms that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the

48
Note Registrar to maintain and keep
at its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Note shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither
the City nor the Note Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination
upon presentation and surrender at
the principal corporate trust office of
the Note Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. A Note
may be transferred only on the Note
Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer the
Note
Registrar
shall
complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by
the owner equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of
the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Note Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Note Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Note Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Notes issued and authenticated upon any exchange or transfer shall be valid obligations of the
City, evidencing the same debt, and
entitled to the same security and benefit under this Ordinance, as the Notes
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes with
other bond anticipation notes of the
City for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for

The City Record
which the Notes are issued and shall
state that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance.
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which they
are issued and that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance. Each Note
shall be authenticated by the manual
signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance, and, consistent with Section
133.27 of the Ohio Revised Code and
notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City,
either or both of those signatures may
be a facsimile. The Notes shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes and
shall endorse thereon the Director of
Law’s approval of the form thereof by
the Director of Law’s manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Notes and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the
principal amount set forth in a certificate of award to be executed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”) at not less than par
and accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section 10
hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund and
used for the purpose for which the
Notes are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Notes are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance. The par value to be received
from the sale of the Bonds or of any
renewal notes and any excess funds
resulting from the issuance of the
Notes shall, to the extent necessary,
be used to pay the debt charges on the
Notes at maturity and are pledged for
that purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all the
taxable property in the City, in addition to all other taxes but within tax

510

March 30, 2016
limitations, a direct tax annually not
less than that which would have been
levied if bonds had been issued therefor without the prior issue of the
Notes. That tax shall be and is
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers, in
the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes
for each year are certified, extended
and collected. That tax shall be
placed before and in preference to all
other items and for the full amount
thereof. The funds derived from the
tax levies required by this Ordinance
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account, and
those funds, together with the interest collected on them, shall be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the
principal and interest of the Notes or
the Bonds in anticipation of which
they are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues
are available from other sources for
the payment of the Notes and Bonds
and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of such direct tax
upon all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,

March 30, 2016
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate,
which shall constitute the continuing
disclosure agreement made by the
City for the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners of the Notes or the
Bonds, as the case may be, in accordance with the SEC Rule. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and
their annual appropriation to meet
costs the City would be required to
incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Bonds and
the Notes authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed
to alter or restrict such full application of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Bonds and the Notes authorized herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a) and
the third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant to
Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are for
convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections of
this Ordinance.
Section 14. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Notes and the Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds
or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141
or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the “Code”) or (ii)
be treated other than as bonds the
interest on which is excluded from
gross income under Section 103 of the
Code, and (b) the interest thereon
will not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section  57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Notes and the
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Notes and the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)

The City Record
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds as
the City is permitted or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section  148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts or
payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing
and signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf of
the City, as may be appropriate to
assure the exclusion of interest from
gross income and the intended tax
status of the Notes and the Bonds, and
(c) to give one or more appropriate
certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting forth
the reasonable expectations of the
City regarding the amount and use of
all the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Bonds
or any Notes (a “Credit Support
Instrument”).
The
Director
of
Finance may request a rating on the
Bonds or Notes from one or more
nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things and
take any and all actions required to
secure a Credit Support Instrument
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds or Notes. The Director of
Finance may enter into one or more
agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing terms not materially inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to

511

49
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Bonds or Notes to the extent available
and otherwise from any other funds
lawfully available that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and any
Note Certificate of Award to the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 20. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it

50
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 336-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$22,750,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal
street system and related facilities
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $22,750,000 (the
“Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section  1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with the
proceeds of the Bonds is at least five
years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 17  years, as evidenced by the certificate contained in
File No. 336-16-A; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and

The City Record
as the same may further be amended
from time to time in accordance with
its provisions, is referred to as the
“General Bond Ordinance”), providing the general terms and provisions
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of bonds in accordance with the provisions thereof
(the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary to
provide funds to pay the costs of cerpermanent
improvements
tain
described in Section 1 hereof that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$22,750,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal
street system and related facilities,
including streets, expressways, roaddriveways,
underground
ways,
vaults, sidewalks, bikeways and
walkways, by acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, opening, extending, widening, grading, draining,
paving, resurfacing, sealing, lighting
and curbing, removing or reconstructing underground vaults to preserve
the public right of way, removing and
replacing trees within the public
right of way, installing gutters, sidewalks and related pedestrian and
cyclist improvements, constructing
and improving culverts, resetting and
constructing catch basins and other
storm drainage facilities, constructing, reconstructing, replacing, renovating and improving bridges, acquiring any real estate and interests in
real estate, including easements, necessary
for
such
purpose,
and
installing signs, signals, markings
and other devices for traffic control
purposes, together with all necessary
and incidental appurtenances, and to
pay any capitalized interest and all
expenses incurred in connection with
the issuance of the securities, including all financing costs within the
meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the
Ohio Revised Code and such other
costs of the foregoing permanent
improvements that may be financed
with the proceeds of securities as permitted by Section  133.15(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code and as otherwise
permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms. The
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
provisions of Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code and other applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the General Bond Ordinance and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be designated “Bridges and Roadways
Improvement Bonds” and may contain such further designation as provided in the certificate of award providing for the final terms of the Bonds
and the sale of the Bonds signed by
the Director of Finance in accordance
with this Ordinance (the “Certificate

512

March 30, 2016
of Award”). The Bonds shall be issued
in one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the Certificate of Award, which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section 1
hereof. The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance and shall bear interest from their date until the principal
amount is paid at the rate or rates per
year specified in the Certificate of
Award, provided that the weighted
average of such rates (taking into
account the principal amount and
maturity of each Bond to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed 6.00% per
year. Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable when due, or until the principal amount is paid, semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 of each year
that the Bonds are outstanding, commencing June 1, 2016 (the “Interest
Payment Dates”), unless otherwise
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as shall
be permitted by law and determined
by the Director of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based
on the written advice of a financial
advisor (as defined in Section 16) to
be in the best interests of the City,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier
than November 15, 2016 and no later
than August 1, 2018, (iii)  the final
maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later than 17 years from that date
which is 12 months prior to the first
date on which provision for payment
of principal is made, and (iv) the principal amount thereof shall be payable
in annual installments such that the
total principal and interest payments
on the Bonds in any fiscal year in
which principal is payable is not more
than three times the amount of those
payments in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in any
year may be issued as term bonds (the
“Term Bonds”), payable pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.

March 30, 2016
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
the
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined in
Section  3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against the then-current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City for
any Term Bonds. That option shall be
exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, by
furnishing the Escrow Agent a certificate, signed by the Registrar, setting forth the extent of the credit to
be applied with respect to the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
corresponding
mandatory
(and
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by the
Escrow Agent at 100% of the principal amount thereof against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation). Any excess of that
amount over the then-current Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirement
shall
be
credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the option
of the City, in whole or in part on any
date, in integral multiples of $5,000,
on the optional redemption dates and
at the redemption prices (expressed
as a percentage of the principal
amount redeemed) specified in the
Certificate of Award, plus, in each
case, accrued interest to the redemption date. The first optional redemption date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment
Date, and the highest redemption
price shall not be greater than 102%
of the principal amount redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date. Based on the written advice

The City Record
of a financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the best
interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, the Bonds, or portions thereof, to be redeemed optionally shall be selected by lot prior to
the selection by lot of the Bonds to be
redeemed on the same date by operation of the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
only upon written notice from the
Director of Finance to the Registrar.
That notice shall specify the redemption date and the principal amount of
each maturity of Bonds to be
redeemed, and shall be given at least
45 days prior to the redemption date
or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Registrar. There
shall be deposited with the Registrar
on or prior to the redemption date
funds sufficient to redeem at the
price
all
of
the
redemption
redeemable Bonds for which notice of
redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City may
elect to purchase Bonds called for
optional redemption in lieu of redeeming those Bonds. That election shall
be exercised by written direction
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent.
That written direction shall state
whether all or less than all of the
Bonds called for optional redemption
are to be purchased by the City in lieu
of redemption, shall identify the
Bonds to be purchased by their maturity date and shall specify the principal amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for optional redemption are to be purchased in
lieu of redemption, the amount of
each maturity to be purchased shall
be in amounts of $5,000 or integral
multiples of $5,000. Any Bonds called
for optional redemption that are not
to be purchased shall be redeemed in
accordance with their redemption provisions. The purchase price of the
Bonds to be purchased in lieu of
redemption shall be equal to the principal of, any accrued but unpaid interest on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners of
the Bonds in addition to the notice of
redemption required by this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, shall not purchase Bonds if sufficient moneys
have not been deposited with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, by the City for the purpose. On
or prior to the scheduled date for
optional redemption, the City may
rescind its direction to purchase the
Bonds in lieu of redemption by written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. In the event that the
direction to purchase is rescinded, the

513

51
Bonds shall be redeemed on the
redemption date set forth in the notice
of redemption delivered to the owners
of the Bonds and in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption at one time (whether for redemption or purchase in lieu of redemption), they shall be called in the order
of maturities directed by the Director
of Finance. If fewer than all Bonds of
a single maturity are to be redeemed
or purchased in lieu of redemption,
the selection of Bonds to be redeemed
or purchased, or portions thereof in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the
Registrar by lot in a manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of
a partial redemption or purchase of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of the
denomination of $5,000. If it is determined that one or more, but not all of
the $5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be called
for redemption, then upon notice of
redemption of a $5,000 unit or units,
the registered owner of that Bond
shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption
or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued to the date fixed for redemption and any premium), and (ii) for
issuance, without charge to the registered owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured portion of the Bond not
redeemed or purchased and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the amounts
due upon redemption are payable.
The notice shall be given by the Registrar on behalf of the City by mailing
a copy of the redemption notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, at
least 30 days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part at the registered owner’s address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of
business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any provider
of a Credit Support Instrument (as
defined in Section 15 hereof) for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Bond, however, shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may specify that the redemption is contingent
on the deposit of moneys with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, on or prior to the redemption

52
date in an amount sufficient to pay
the redemption price of the Bonds to
be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the manner provided in the preceding paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the Escrow
Agent or Registrar, as paying agent,
in an amount sufficient to pay the
redemption price, the Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption
shall become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption
of all of the Bonds and portions thereof to be redeemed, including interest
accrued to the redemption date, is
held by the Registrar on the redemption date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the
redemption date, or that notice shall
not have been deposited in the mail,
those Bonds and portions thereof
shall continue to bear interest, until
they are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money held
by the Registrar for the redemption of
particular Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered owners and shall be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without
deduction for the services of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent. Principal shall be payable
when due upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid
on each Interest Payment Date by
check or draft mailed to the person in
whose name the Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register (as defined
in Section  3 hereof) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Registrar Agreement authorized and
defined in Section  3 hereof (the
“Record Date”). Notwithstanding any
contrary provision in the General
Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds
are held by a Depository in a bookentry system (as described in Section  3 hereof), debt charges on the
Bonds will be payable in lawful
money of the United States by wire
transfer to the Depository made by
the Escrow Agent on each Interest
Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance. The General Bond Ordinance, except for the third paragraph
of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment of the interest
rate in an event of default) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 (pertaining generally to the periods during
which the City is not required to make
any transfers or exchanges of bonds
issued under the General Bond Ordinance), will apply to the Bonds.
Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a
part of this Ordinance as fully as if

The City Record
restated in this Ordinance. Words and
terms not otherwise defined in this
Ordinance shall have the same meaning as set forth in the General Bond
Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of the
Bonds; Paying Agents. The Bonds
shall express upon their faces the purpose for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance. Pursuant to Section  4 of
the General Bond Ordinance, each
Bond shall be authenticated by the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee (as defined
therein). The Bonds shall be signed
by the City’s Mayor and by the City’s
Director of Finance, and, consistent
with Section  133.27 of the Ohio
Revised Code and notwithstanding
Section  177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either or both of
those signatures may be a facsimile.
The Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section  83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Bonds and shall
endorse thereon the Director of Law’s
approval of the form thereof by the
Director of Law’s manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, bond registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Bonds (the
“Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall
also act as paying agent for the Bonds
so long as the Bonds are held in a
book-entry system. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, an agreement among the
City, Registrar and Escrow Agent
(the
“Registrar
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, providing for services relating
to
the
registration,
transfer,
exchange and payment of the Bonds
on terms approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City and consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City.
That approval shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Registrar Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available and then from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at its
principal corporate trust office all
books and records necessary for the
registration, exchange and transfer
of Bonds as provided in this Section
(the “Bond Register”). The person in
whose name a Bond is registered on
the Bond Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the

514

March 30, 2016
City’s liability upon the Bond, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender
at the principal corporate trust office
of the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond may
be transferred only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender
of the Bond at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar together
with an assignment signed by the registered owner or by a person legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or
other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid obligations of
the City, evidencing the same debt,
and entitled to the same security and
benefit under this Ordinance, as the
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book-entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book-entry form” or “book-entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds and the principal of and interest on the Bonds may
be transferred only through a book
entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are
issued by the City only to a Depository or its nominee as registered owner,
with the Bonds “immobilized” in the
custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than the
City is the record that identifies the
owners of beneficial interests in those
Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book-entry system to

March 30, 2016
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds, in book-entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book-entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers,
banks and trust companies, and clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book-entry
system and, if and as long as a bookentry system is utilized: (i) the Bonds
may be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Bond representing
each maturity and registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository;
(ii) the beneficial owners in bookentry form shall have no right to
receive Bonds in the form of physical
securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in bookentry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry by
the Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Bonds as such shall not
be transferable or exchangeable,
except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a Depository, without further action by the
City.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Bonds for use in a book-entry system,
the Director of Finance may attempt
to
establish
a
securities
depository/book-entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Registrar, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and Registrar shall authenticate and deliver
bond certificates in registered form to
the assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized to the extent necessary or required to enter into any
agreements determined necessary in
connection with the book-entry system for the Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of the
form of any such agreement by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The Bonds
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Bonds and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those

The City Record
firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to the
Original Purchaser in the Certificate
of Award which shall specify the
final terms of the Bonds in accordance with law, the provisions of this
Ordinance, the written advice of a
financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Bonds, the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount of
the Bonds plus any accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), the Interest Payment
Dates and the date of the Bonds and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and
certificates, to cause a true transcript
of proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City a
bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Bonds and the Original Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds, which
shall be consistent with this Ordinance, not substantially adverse to
the City, and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in this
Ordinance and as may be provided in
or pursuant to the Certificate of
Award, are in the best interest of the
City and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds with
other bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bonds, Series 2016” or such other designation as may be set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Such bonds

515

53
shall contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Bonds are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds promptly when and as the same falls due,
and also to provide for the discharge
of the Bonds at maturity, there shall
be and is levied on all the taxable
property in the City, in addition to all
other taxes, a direct tax annually during the period the Bonds are outstanding, in an amount sufficient to
provide for the payment of that interest, when and as the same shall fall
due, and also to discharge the principal of the Bonds at maturity, which
tax shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be within the ten-mill
limitation imposed by law, shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general
purposes for each of those years are
certified, extended and collected, and
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the full
amount thereof. The funds derived
from those tax levies shall be placed
in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the Sinking Fund as
required by the General Bond Ordinance, and those funds, together with
the interest collected on them, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same fall
due; provided, however, that, subject
to the provisions of Section  8 of the
General Bond Ordinance, in each year
to the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of
such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available
and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections  133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt charges
for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds are
issued. The proceeds of the Bonds to
be applied to pay costs of any Credit
Support Instruments obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be
paid to the provider or providers of
those Credit Support Instruments.
The proceeds of the Bonds to be used
to pay costs of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar
Agreement pending their application
to the payment of such costs. Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio

54
Revised Code and this Ordinance, and
notwithstanding Chapter 179 of the
Codified Ordinances, any accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges and
liens authorized by the General Bond
Ordinance and, in addition to the
taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Bonds are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and
discharged all the outstanding Bonds,
or there shall otherwise be paid to the
holders of the outstanding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or subaccounts, in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or
redemption dates, of all debt charges

The City Record
on the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the date
of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds are to be
redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall
have been duly given or irrevocable
provision satisfactory to the Trustee
shall have been duly made for the giving of such notice. Any moneys held
by the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient
to meet payment of debt charges on
the Bonds, as directed by the Director
of Finance. Any income or interest
earned by, or increment to, the investments held under this Section shall, to
the extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of
such determination as provided in
Section  17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent. In the event of
nonpresentment of any Bond as
described in Section 17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held
pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section  17(a) for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof, notes of the City may be
issued in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $22,750,000 (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the  “Note Certificate of
Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding 4.00% per year, as may be
fixed by the Director of Finance of
the City in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be dated their date of
issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award,
which shall be no later than five
years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, provided that, if the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated
“Bridges and Roadways Improvement
Bond Anticipation Notes”; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book-entry
only system) in denominations of
$5,000 or integral multiples thereof.
Interest shall be payable semiannually on the dates set forth in the Note

516

March 30, 2016
Certificate of Award; provided that if
the Notes mature on or before the end
of the twelfth month following their
date of issuance, interest on the Notes
shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Notes (the “Note
Registrar”). The Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the
Notes if the Notes are held in a bookentry system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the “Note
Registrar Agreement”) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes on terms that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Note Registrar to maintain and keep
at its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Note shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither
the City nor the Note Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination
upon presentation and surrender at
the principal corporate trust office of
the Note Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. A Note
may be transferred only on the Note
Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer the
Note
Registrar
shall
complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by
the owner equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of
the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Regis-

March 30, 2016
trar shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Note Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Note Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Note Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Notes issued and authenticated upon any exchange or transfer shall be valid obligations of the
City, evidencing the same debt, and
entitled to the same security and benefit under this Ordinance, as the Notes
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes with
other bond anticipation notes of the
City for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for
which the Notes are issued and shall
state that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance.
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which they
are issued and that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance. Each Note
shall be authenticated by the manual
signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance, and, consistent with Section
133.27 of the Ohio Revised Code and
notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City,
either or both of those signatures may
be a facsimile. The Notes shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes and
shall endorse thereon the Director of
Law’s approval of the form thereof by
the Director of Law’s manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Notes and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the
principal amount set forth in a certificate of award to be executed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”) at not less than par
and accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section 10
hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund and
used for the purpose for which the
Notes are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.

The City Record
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Notes are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance. The par value to be received
from the sale of the Bonds or of any
renewal notes and any excess funds
resulting from the issuance of the
Notes shall, to the extent necessary,
be used to pay the debt charges on the
Notes at maturity and are pledged for
that purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all the
taxable property in the City, in addition to all other taxes but within tax
limitations, a direct tax annually not
less than that which would have been
levied if bonds had been issued therefor without the prior issue of the
Notes. That tax shall be and is
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers, in
the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes
for each year are certified, extended
and collected. That tax shall be
placed before and in preference to all
other items and for the full amount
thereof. The funds derived from the
tax levies required by this Ordinance
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account, and
those funds, together with the interest collected on them, shall be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the
principal and interest of the Notes or
the Bonds in anticipation of which
they are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues
are available from other sources for
the payment of the Notes and Bonds
and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of such direct tax
upon all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to

517

55
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate,
which shall constitute the continuing
disclosure agreement made by the
City for the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners of the Notes or the
Bonds, as the case may be, in accordance with the SEC Rule. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and
their annual appropriation to meet
costs the City would be required to
incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Bonds and
the Notes authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed
to alter or restrict such full application of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Bonds and the Notes authorized herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a) and
the third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant to
Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are for
convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections of
this Ordinance.

56
Section 14. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Notes and the Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds
or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141
or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the “Code”) or (ii)
be treated other than as bonds the
interest on which is excluded from
gross income under Section 103 of the
Code, and (b) the interest thereon
will not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section  57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Notes and the
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Notes and the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds as
the City is permitted or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section  148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts or
payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing
and signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf of
the City, as may be appropriate to
assure the exclusion of interest from
gross income and the intended tax
status of the Notes and the Bonds, and
(c) to give one or more appropriate
certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting forth
the reasonable expectations of the
City regarding the amount and use of

The City Record
all the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Bonds
or any Notes (a “Credit Support
Instrument”).
The
Director
of
Finance may request a rating on the
Bonds or Notes from one or more
nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things and
take any and all actions required to
secure a Credit Support Instrument
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds or Notes. The Director of
Finance may enter into one or more
agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing terms not materially inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Bonds or Notes to the extent available
and otherwise from any other funds
lawfully available that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds

518

March 30, 2016
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and any
Note Certificate of Award to the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 20. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

The City Record

March 30, 2016
Ord. No. 368-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch a banner at East 55th Street
and Scovill Avenue near East Technical High School, for the period from
May 25, 2016 to June 24, 2016, inclusive, publicizing the Annual Ward 5
Family Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Department
of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch a banner at East 55th Street
and Scovill Avenue near East Technical High School, for the period from
May 25, 2016 to June 24, 2016, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Capital Projects, in
consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere
with any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner of
any pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial
advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed promptly upon
the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval

by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

Ord. No. 373-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
the Department of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Bellaire-Puritas Development
Corporation for the Summer Safety
Education Film Series through the
use of Ward 16 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development into agreement effective June 1,
2014 with the Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation for the Summer
Safety Education Film Series for the
public purpose of providing safety
education programming on drug use,
violence and crime prevention to city
of Cleveland residents through the
use of Ward 16 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $7,500 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

57
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 21, 2016.
Effective March 24, 2016.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday March 28, 2016
10:00 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Mitchell, Vice Chair; Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson. Authorized Absence: Brady.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Conwell,
Mitchell,
Pruitt, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Brady, Keane.
Tuesday March 29, 2016
9:30 a.m.
Development, Planning and Sustainability (Zoning) Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland,
Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins,
Pruitt, Zone. Unauthorized Absence:
Dow. Pro tempore: Kelley.
Development, Planning and Sustainability
Committee:
Present:
Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, Dow,
Pruitt, Zone.
Wednesday March 30, 2016
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee: Present: Zone,
Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair; Cimperman,
Kazy,
Mitchell,
Polensek.
Authorized Absence: Keane.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Amend Ord. No. 74-16 — Cisco Wi-Fi equipment — gift — Logicalis — Presidio (O 381-16) . . . . . .
Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District — property adoption
agreement — Community Development — public improvements — former U.S. Coast Guard
Station (O 259-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — accept 2016 funding for illegal dumping — Public
Safety’s Environmental Crimes Task Force (O 75-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eastbound I-90 exit ramp to Chester Ave. — consent — install traffic signals — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 193-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC , Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement —
Utilities Department — CPP (O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Safety Education Film Series — safety education programming on drug use, violence
and crime prevention — Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation —
Community Development (Ward 16 CRF) (O 373-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 487

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 496

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519

Appropriations
Appropriations — Year 2016 — current expenses and other expenses — Finance
Department (O 125-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 488

519

The City Record

58

March 30, 2016

Banners
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St., and Scovill Ave. — May 25 to
June 24 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 368-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519

Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation
Summer Safety Education Film Series — safety education programming on drug use, violence
and crime prevention — agreement — Community Development (Ward 16 CRF) (O 373-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
East 111th Street, 2891 (Ward 6) — Patrick Slaughter, owner — appeal resolved on 3/23/16
(Doc. A-10-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 128th Street, 3247 (Ward 4) — Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, owner — appeal postponed
to 4/6/16 on 3/23/16 (Doc. A-16-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 30th Street, 1581 (Ward 7) — Hom Family Limited Partnership, owner — appeal adopted
on 3/23/16 (Doc. A-2-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 41st Street, 1615 (Ward 7) — Zhong Ming Wang, owner — appeal adopted on
3/23/16 (Doc. A-4-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Easton Avenue, 9523 (Ward 6) — Rochelle Sessor, owner — appeal resolved on 3/23/16
(Doc. A-18-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 2901 (Ward 7) — 2901 Euclid Avenue, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
3/23/16 (Doc. A-3-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 925 (Ward 3) — HH Cleveland Huntington, LP c/o Newmark Management,
owner — no action on 3/23/16 (Doc. A-49-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grayton Road, 4500 (Ward 17) — Frank Humr, owner — appeal adopted on 3/23/16 (Doc. A-5-16) .
Greenwich Lane, 11213 (Ward 2) — Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, owner — appeal postponed
to 4/6/16 on 3/23/16 (Doc. A-15-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Halle Avenue, 7403 (Ward 3) — REZ Properties LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
3/23/16 (Doc. A-9-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Road, 4820-4836 (Ward 1) — Cansouth Properties LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
3/23/16 (Doc. A-252-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lenacrave Avenue, 11914 (Ward 2) — Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, owner — appeal postponed
to 4/6/16 on 3/23/16 (Doc. A-14-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Green Road, 2031 (Ward 10) — Anthony Holman Sr., owner — appeal withdrawn on
3/23/16 (Doc. A-13-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John Avenue, 12806 (Ward 11) — Willie Bedell Jr., owner — appeal adopted on 3/23/16
(Doc. A-7-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John Avenue, 12810 (Ward 11) — Willie Bedell Jr., owner — appeal adopted on 3/23/16
(Doc. A-6-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Storer Avenue, 5303 (Ward 14) — Woodmen of the World, owner — appeal adopted on 3/23/16
(Doc. A-269-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triskett Road, 14312 (Ward 17) — John P. Martin, owner — appeal postponed to 4/6/16 on
3/23/16 (Doc. A-270-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 129th Street, 3736 (Ward 16) — Susan Frank, owner — appeal adopted on 3/23/16
(Doc. A-1-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th Street, 2138 (Ward 3) — Elizabeth Edwards and Janice Edwards, owners — appeal
resolved on 3/23/16 (Doc. A-11-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 95th Street, 2109 (Ward 15) — Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, owner — appeal postponed
to 4/6/16 on 3/23/16 (Doc. A-17-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480

Board of Control — Administrative Services Division
HOME Program and Uniform Relocation Act Property Standards and Decent, Safe and Sanitary
Inspections for HUD — per Ord. 865-15 to Graddic Company — Dept. of Community
Development (BOC Res. 129-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 474

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Paging and Sound Systems software maintenance and support — per C.O. Sec. 181.102(e) to
SoundCom Systems, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 125-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473

Board of Control — Community Development Department
HOME Program and Uniform Relocation Act Property Standards and Decent, Safe and Sanitary
Inspections for HUD — per Ord. 865-15 to Graddic Company — Division
of Administrative Services (BOC Res. 129-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 474

Board of Control — Economic Development Department
Land located at 2910 West 3rd Street — convey to Empire Paving, Inc. per Ord. 1441-15 —
Divisions of Purchases and Supplies (BOC Res. 130-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 474

520

March 30, 2016

The City Record

59

Board of Control — Emergency Medical Service Division
Advanced Life Support Ambulance Services — per Ord. 880-14 to Donald Martens & Sons
Ambulance Services, Inc. — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 126-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473
Advanced Life Support Ambulance Services — per Ord. 880-14 to Physicians & Surgeons
Ambulance Service dba American Medical Response, Inc. — Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 127-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473

Board of Control — Finance Department
Temporary and Seasonal Personnel for Project Clean Program — amend BOC Res. 73-16 —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 128-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 474

Board of Control — Land Reconveyance
Land located at 2910 West 3rd Street — convey to Empire Paving, Inc. per Ord. 1441-15 —
Divisions of Purchases and Supplies, Dept. of Economic Development (BOC Res. 130-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 474

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Paging and Sound Systems software maintenance and support — per C.O. Sec. 181.102(e) to
SoundCom Systems, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(BOC Res. 125-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473
Time and Attendance Workforce System software maintenance and support —
per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Kronos Incorporated (BOC Res. 124-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Advanced Life Support Ambulance Services — per Ord. 880-14 to Donald Martens & Sons
Ambulance Services, Inc. — Division of Emergency Medical Service, Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 126-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Advanced Life Support Ambulance Services — per Ord. 880-14 to Physicians & Surgeons
Ambulance Service dba American Medical Response, Inc. — Division of Emergency
Medical Service, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 127-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Geographic Information System Program — renew licenses — Environmental Systems
Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI) per C.O. Sec. 181.102 — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 122-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HOME Program and Uniform Relocation Act Property Standards and Decent, Safe and Sanitary
Inspections for HUD — per Ord. 865-15 to Graddic Company — Division
of Administrative Services, Dept. of Community Development (BOC Res. 129-16) . . . . . . . .
Paging and Sound Systems software maintenance and support — per C.O. Sec. 181.102(e) to
SoundCom Systems, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 125-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Plastic Marine Debris Social Marketing Campaign — per Ord. 642-15 to Thunder Tech, Inc.
dba thunder::tech — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 123-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Temporary and Seasonal Personnel for Project Clean Program — amend BOC Res. 73-16 —
Depts. of Finance, Public Works (BOC Res. 128-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Time and Attendance Workforce System software maintenance and support —
per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Kronos Incorporated — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 124-16) . . .
Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan Program —
approve subcontractors — Contract #69444 per BOC Res. 241-09 — Divisions of Water
and Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 121-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 474

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 474
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Advanced Life Support Ambulance Services — per Ord. 880-14 to Donald Martens & Sons
Ambulance Services, Inc. — Division of Emergency Medical Service (BOC Res. 126-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473
Advanced Life Support Ambulance Services — per Ord. 880-14 to Physicians & Surgeons
Ambulance Service dba American Medical Response, Inc. — Division of Emergency
Medical Service (BOC Res. 127-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Geographic Information System Program — renew licenses — Environmental Systems
Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI) per C.O. Sec. 181.102 (BOC Res. 122-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472
Plastic Marine Debris Social Marketing Campaign — per Ord. 642-15 to Thunder Tech, Inc.
dba thunder::tech (BOC Res. 123-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472
Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan Program —
approve subcontractors — Contract #69444 per BOC Res. 241-09 — Divisions of Water
and Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 121-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Temporary and Seasonal Personnel for Project Clean Program — amend BOC Res. 73-16 —
Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 128-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 474

521

The City Record

60

March 30, 2016

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Land located at 2910 West 3rd Street — convey to Empire Paving, Inc. per Ord. 1441-15 —
Dept. of Economic Development (BOC Res. 130-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 474

Board of Control — Water Division
Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan Program —
approve subcontractors — Contract #69444 per BOC Res. 241-09 — Division
of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 121-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract and Protection Plan Program —
approve subcontractors — Contract #69444 per BOC Res. 241-09 — Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 121-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bernard Avenue, 10818 (Ward 11) — Ramdat Sarran, owner — appeal postponed to 5/2/16 on
3/28/16 (Cal. 16-27). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Road, 12603 (Ward 6) — Carlin and Sunnah McNary, owners — appeal granted
and adopted on 3/28/16 (Cal. 16-20) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 2900 (Ward 3) — Hingetown Holdings, LLC, owners — appeal heard on
3/28/16 (Cal. 16-26). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hancock Avenue, 2910 (Ward 3) — Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp., owner, and
Michael Horton — appeal heard on 3/28/16 (Cal. 16-31) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 4118 (Ward 3) — Ron Leonhardt, owner — appeal postponed to 5/9/16
on 3/28/16 (Cal. 16-1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saint Clair Avenue, 16700 (Ward 8) — WRRS LLC, owner — appeal heard on 3/28/16
(Cal. 16-29) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Road, 15202 (Ward 8) — Meir Besit Trust, owner — appeal postponed to 4/11/16
on 3/28/16 (Cal. 16-6) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 191st Street, 4304 (Ward 17) — Marilyn A. Lombardo, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 3/28/16 (Cal. 16-23) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 28th Street, 1702 (Ward 3) — Kirt Montlack, owner — appeal heard on 3/28/16
(Cal. 16-30) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 29th Street, 2168 (Ward 3) — Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp., owner, and
Michael Horton — appeal heard on 3/28/16 (Cal. 16-32) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 44th Street, 2052 (Ward 3) — B.R. Knez, prospective purchaser — appeal granted and
adopted on 3/28/16 (Cal. 16-25) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 476
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 478
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 478
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 478
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 478
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 478
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Broadway Avenue, 9411 (Ward 12) — Community Assessment & Treatment Services, owner
appeal to be heard on 4/11/16 (Cal. 16-43) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 30th Street, 1593 (Ward 7) — Hom Family Ltd. Partnership, owner — appeal to
be heard on 4/11/16 (Cal. 16-42) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 3908 (Ward 3) — Malta Hall Association, owner — appeal to be heard
on 4/11/16 (Cal. 16-44) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Road, 19001 (Ward 10) — NB Cleveland, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 4/11/16 (Cal. 16-40) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 477
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 477
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 477
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 477

Bonds
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds — $ 22,750,000 — Finance Department (O 336-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 512
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $625,000 — Finance Department
(O 334-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 498
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $ 4,750,000 — Finance Department (O 335-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505

Budget
Appropriations — Year 2016 — current expenses and other expenses — Finance
Department (O 125-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 488

Capital Projects
Broome Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(R 158-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St., and Scovill Ave. — May 25 to
June 24 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — banners (Ward 05) (O 368-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — distributed
antenna system nodes and duct banks — City Planning Commission (Ward 04 and 12)
(O 191-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 96th St., (between Euclid Ave., and Carnegie Ave.) — PPN 119-17-006 — acquire easement
for sidewalk — The Cleveland Clinic (Ward 06) (O 23-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

522

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 484

March 30, 2016

The City Record

61

Eastbound I-90 exit ramp to Chester Ave. — consent — install traffic signals — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — City Planning Commission (O 193-16) . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. (between Coltman Rd., and Lakeview Rd.) — add secondary name of James
A. Garfield Way — City Planning Commission (Wards 06, 09) (O 367-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation project — appropriate easement — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (R 78-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Upper Chester Target Area — development agreement — CWRU — Cleveland Clinic — amend
contract CT 8006,NF 2013-016 — The Finch Group — UCAA LIMITED — Community
Development (Ward 07) (O 396-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469

Case Western Reserve University (CWRU)
Upper Chester Target Area — development agreement — Cleveland Clinic — amend contract
CT 8006,NF 2013-016 — The Finch Group — UCAA LIMITED — Community Development —
Capital Projects Office (Ward 07) (O 396-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469

City of Cleveland Bids
2016 Summer Food Services Program — 3 Month Breakfast & Lunches — Department of Public
Works — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 1293-15 — bid due April 8, 2016 (advertised
3/23/2016 and 3/30/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2016 Summer Food Services Program — Camp Forbes — Department of Public Works —
Division of Recreation — per Ord. 1293-15 — bid due April 8, 2016 (advertised 3/23/2016
and 3/30/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repair, Maintenance, and Upgrade of Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
System — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water Pollution Control — per
Ord. 796-14 — bid due April 15, 2016 (advertised 3/23/2016 and 3/30/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewer Test Tee Inspection, Installation and Snaking — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 541-13 — bid due April 15, 2016 (advertised
3/23/2016 and 3/30/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480

City Planning Commission
Adult entertainment — amend Section 347.07 (O 922-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broome Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03)
(R 158-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Castle Ave., and Buhrer Ave. (between I-71 and Quigley Rd.) — change Use Districts
(Ward 03) (O 1370-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — distributed
antenna system nodes and duct banks — Capital Projects Office (Ward 04 and 12)
(O 191-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eastbound I-90 exit ramp to Chester Ave. — consent — install traffic signals — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) — Capital Projects Office (O 193-16) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establish Opportunity Corridor Design Review District — north and south side of the
Opportunity Corridor roadway (between East 55th St. and Cedar Ave.) (Ward 05)
(O 118-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establish Rockport Design Review District — West 130th St. (between Kirton Ave. and Astor
Ave.) (Ward 16) (O 72-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. (between Coltman Rd., and Lakeview Rd.) — add secondary name of James
A. Garfield Way — Capital Projects Office (Wards 06, 09) (O 367-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation project — appropriate easement — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 03) (R 78-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St.(south of Erwin Ave. to Sprecher Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts (Ward 16) (O 73-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 482
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 483

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 487
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 485
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 485

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
East 96th St., (between Euclid Ave., and Carnegie Ave.) — PPN 119-17-006 — acquire easement
for sidewalk — Capital Projects Office (Ward 06) (O 23-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 484
Upper Chester Target Area — development agreement — CWRU — amend contract CT 8006,NF
2013-016 — The Finch Group — UCAA LIMITED — Community Development — Capital
Projects ffice (Ward 07) (O 396-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
United Airlines, Inc. fka Continental Airlines, Inc. — amend Contract No. CAL 1989 for
Concourse “C” and Contract No. CAL 1997 for Concourse “D” — change terms of leases
(O 291-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 498

Cleveland Metropolitan Park District
Board of Park Commissioners — property adoption agreement — Community Development —
public improvements — former U.S. Coast Guard Station (O 259-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497

523

The City Record

62

March 30, 2016

Cleveland Municipal Court
Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program — grant — Ohio Supreme Court (O 329-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 498

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Caver Platform LLC, PMI Group, Inc., and LCI Construction, Inc. — contract no. RC 2015-42,
RC 2014-74, RC 2014-80 — Landscape materials supplies and services for landscaping and
tree lawns — Utilities Department — Water Division — WPC Division (385-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC , Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement —
Utilities Department — CPP (O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 496

Codified Ordinances
Adult entertainment — amend Section 347.07 (O 922-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 482
Firearms, Ammunition, Helmets, Tasers, and K-9 Police Dogs; Purchase of — amend Section
135.065 — Safety Department (O 76-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 487

Communications
Animal Care and Control Division — grant acceptance of $35,000 — Helen M. Fonda Trust —
Safety Department (F 387-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cash Management and Investment Policy, 2016 — Finance Department (F 386-16) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Division of Police/Bureau of Community Policing — gift acceptance — cargo truck — Cleveland
Police Foundation — Safety Department (F 388-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Resident Utilization Report — February 2016 — Equal Opportunity Office (F 395-16) . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 465
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Community Development
Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District — property adoption
agreement — public improvements — former U.S. Coast Guard Station (O 259-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497
Summer Safety Education Film Series — safety education programming on drug use, violence
and crime prevention — Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation — agreement
(Ward 16 CRF) (O 373-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519
Upper Chester Target Area — development agreement — CWRU — Cleveland Clinic — amend
contract CT 8006,NF 2013-016 — The Finch Group — UCAA LIMITED — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 07) (O 396-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469

Concession Agreements
Food and beverage concession at Collinwood Athletic Complex — Works Department (O 383-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468

Condolences
Baker, Sr., Hubert Pelham (R 400-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Benesh, Anne Theresa (R 399-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
McCrary-Moxey, Wyleeia (R 398-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Contracts
Caver Platform LLC, PMI Group, Inc., and LCI Construction, Inc. — contract no. RC 2015-42,
RC 2014-74, RC 2014-80 — Landscape materials supplies and services for landscaping
and tree lawns — CPP Division — Utilities Department — Water Division — WPC Division
(O 385-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community service work- City Year (O 255-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Firearms, Ammunition, Helmets, Tasers, and K-9 Police Dogs; Purchase of — amend Section
135.065 — Safety Department (O 76-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New World Systems, Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure dba Intergraph Corporation, and
Winbourne Consulting, LLC — Safety IT projects — professional service — implement
the upgrades to mobile field reporting — Computer Aided Dispatch System
(O 152-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC , Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement —
Utilities Department — CPP (O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
United Airlines, Inc. fka Continental Airlines, Inc. — amend Contract No. CAL 1989 for
Concourse “C” and Contract No. CAL 1997 for Concourse “D” — change terms of leases —
CHIA (O 291-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 487

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 495

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 496

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 498

Cuyahoga County
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — accept 2016 funding for illegal dumping — Public
Safety’s Environmental Crimes Task Force (O 75-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 487

524

March 30, 2016

The City Record

63

Easements
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation project — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (R 78-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481

Economic Development Department
Tax abatements — Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., —
Enterprise Zone Agreement — East Side Market (redevelop) — East 105th St. and St.
Clair Ave. (Ward 09) (O 384-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468

Encroachments
Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — right-of-way — distributed antenna system
nodes and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 04
and 12) (O 191-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Tax abatements — Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., — Economic
Development Department — East Side Market (redevelop) — East 105th St. and St.
Clair Ave. (Ward 09) (O 384-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468

Finance Department
Amend Ord. No. 74-16 — Cisco Wi-Fi equipment — gift — Logicalis — Presidio (O 381-16) . . . .
Appropriations — Year 2016 — current expenses and other expenses (O 125-16). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds — $ 22,750,000 (O 336-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cash Management and Investment Policy, 2016 (F 386-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $625,000 (O 334-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $ 4,750,000 (O 335-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program — Cleveland Municipal Court — grant — Ohio
Supreme Court (O 329-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

467
488
512
465
498
505

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 498

Gifts
Amend Ord. No. 74-16 — Cisco Wi-Fi equipment — gift — Logicalis — Presidio (O 381-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Division of Police/Bureau of Community Policing — gift acceptance — cargo truck —
Cleveland Police Foundation — Safety Department (F 388-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Grants
Animal Care and Control Division — grant acceptance of $35,000 — Helen M. Fonda Trust —
Safety Department (F 387-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program — Cleveland Municipal Court — Ohio Supreme
Court (O 329-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 498

House Bill
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481

Illegal Dumping
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — accept 2016 funding for illegal dumping — Public
Safety’s Environmental Crimes Task Force (O 75-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 487

Leases
United Airlines, Inc. fka Continental Airlines, Inc. — amend Contract No. CAL 1989 for
Concourse “C” and Contract No. CAL 1997 for Concourse “D” — change terms of leases —
CHIA (O 291-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 498

Liquor Permits
Carnegie Ave., 10664 — new application (Ward 06) (F 390-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection to issuance (Ward 03) (R 392-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th St., 965 (1st fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
1336-15 (Ward 09) (R 403-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Linwood Ave., 7038 (excluding 2nd fl.) — withdraw objection to issuance —
repeal Res. 273-16 (Ward 07) (R 394-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Ave., 9815 — objection to issuance (Ward 15) (R 393-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Rd., 1330 (1st. fl.) — objection to issuance (Ward 03) (R 391-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St., 3519 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 11) (F 389-16) . . . . . . . . .

525

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 471
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

471
471
470
467

The City Record

64

March 30, 2016

Office Of Equal Opportunity (O.E.O.)
Resident Utilization Report — February 2016 (F 395-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
Eastbound I-90 exit ramp to Chester Ave. — consent — install traffic signals — Capital
Projects Office — City Planning Commission (O 193-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

Permits
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St., and Scovill Ave. — May 25 to
June 24 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — banners — Capital Projects Office (Ward
05) (O 368-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519
Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — distributed
antenna system nodes and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 04 and 12) (O 191-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497

Police Division
New World Systems, Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure dba Intergraph Corporation, and
Winbourne Consulting, LLC — Safety IT projects — professional service contracts to
implement the upgrades to mobile field reporting — Computer Aided Dispatch System,
(O 152-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 495

Port Control Department
Roofing system and related projects — public improvement contract (O 382-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468
United Airlines, Inc. fka Continental Airlines, Inc. — amend Contract No. CAL 1989 for
Concourse “C” and Contract No. CAL 1997 for Concourse “D” — change terms of leases —
CHIA (O 291-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 498

Professional Services
New World Systems, Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure dba Intergraph Corporation, and
Winbourne Consulting, LLC — Safety IT projects — professional service contracts to
implement the upgrades to mobile field reporting — Computer Aided Dispatch System
(O 152-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 495
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC , Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement —
Utilities Department — CPP (O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 496
Roofing system and related projects — public improvement contract — Port Control
Department (O 382-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468

Public Improvements
Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District — property adoption
agreement — Community Development — former U.S. Coast Guard Station (O 259-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC , Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement —
Utilities Department — CPP (O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 496
Roofing system and related projects — contract — Port Control Department (O 382-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468

Public Works
Community service work- City Year (O 255-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472
Food and beverage concession at Collinwood Athletic Complex (O 383-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468

Purchases And Supplies Division
East 96th St., (between Euclid Ave., and Carnegie Ave.) — PPN 119-17-006 — acquire easement
for sidewalk — The Cleveland Clinic — Capital Projects Office (Ward 06) (O 23-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 484

Recognition
Bobgan, Raymond (R 402-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Cimperman, Joe (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Dyngus Day Cleveland (R 401-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Regional Transit Authority (RTA)
Oppose discontinuation of parts of the bus route #81 (R 397-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469

Reports
Resident Utilization Report — February 2016 — Equal Opportunity Office (F 395-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

526

March 30, 2016

The City Record

65

Resolution Of Support
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Oppose discontinuation of parts of the bus route #81 — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority (R 397-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469

Safety Department
Animal Care and Control Division — grant acceptance of $35,000 — Helen M. Fonda
Trust (F 387-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — accept 2016 funding for illegal dumping — Public
Safety’s Environmental Crimes Task Force (O 75-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Division of Police/Bureau of Community Policing — gift acceptance — cargo truck —
Cleveland Police Foundation (F 388-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Firearms, Ammunition, Helmets, Tasers, and K-9 Police Dogs; Purchase of — amend Section
135.065 (O 76-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New World Systems, Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure dba Intergraph Corporation, and
Winbourne Consulting, LLC — Safety IT projects — professional service contracts to
implement the upgrades to mobile field reporting — Computer Aided Dispatch System
(O 152-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 487
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 487

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 495

Street Vacation
Broome Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (R 158-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481

Streets — Name
Euclid Ave. (between Coltman Rd., and Lakeview Rd.) — add secondary name of James
A. Garfield Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Wards 06, 09)
(O 367-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

Tax Abatement
Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Economic
Development Department — East Side Market (redevelop) — East 105th St. and St. Clair
Ave. (Ward 09) (O 384-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468

Tax Credits
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481

Utilities Department
Caver Platform LLC, PMI Group, Inc., and LCI Construction, Inc. — contract no. RC 2015-42,
RC 2014-74, RC 2014-80 — Landscape materials supplies and services for landscaping
and tree lawns — CPP Division — Utilities Department — Water Division — WPC
Division (O 385-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC , Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement —
Utilities Department — CPP (O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 496

Ward 01
Baker, Sr., Hubert Pelham — Condolence (R 400-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Ward 02
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Ward 03
Broome Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 158-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Castle Ave., and Buhrer Ave. (between I-71 and Quigley Rd.) — change Use Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 1370-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 392-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Rd., 1330 (1st. fl.) — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 391-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oppose discontinuation of parts of the bus route #81 — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority (R 397-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

527

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

483
467
470
470

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469

The City Record

66

March 30, 2016

Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation project — appropriate easement — Capital
Projects Office — City Planning Commission (R 78-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481

Ward 04
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — distributed
antenna system nodes and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 04 and 12) (O 191-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497

Ward 05
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St., and Scovill Ave. — May 25 to
June 24 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — banners — Capital Projects
Office (O 368-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Establish Opportunity Corridor Design Review District — north and south side of the
Opportunity Corridor roadway (between East 55th St. and Cedar Ave.) — City Planning
Commission (O 118-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 487

Ward 06
Carnegie Ave., 10664 — new application — liquor permit (F 390-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 96th St., (between Euclid Ave., and Carnegie Ave.) — PPN 119-17-006 — acquire easement
for sidewalk — The Cleveland Clinic — Capital Projects Office (O 23-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. (between Coltman Rd., and Lakeview Rd.) — add secondary name of James
A. Garfield Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Wards 06, 09)
(O 367-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 484

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472

Ward 07
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Linwood Ave., 7038 (excluding 2nd fl.) — withdraw objection to issuance —
repeal Res. 273-16 — liquor permit (R 394-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 471
Upper Chester Target Area — development agreement — CWRU — Cleveland Clinic — amend
contract CT 8006,NF 2013-016 — The Finch Group — UCAA LIMITED — Community
Development — Capital Projects Office (O 396-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469

Ward 08
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Ward 09
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th St., 965 (1st fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res.
1336-15 — liquor permit (R 403-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. (between Coltman Rd., and Lakeview Rd.) — add secondary name of James
A. Garfield Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Wards 06, 09)
(O 367-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McCrary-Moxey, Wyleeia — Condolence (R 398-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax abatements — Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., —
Enterprise Zone Agreement — Economic Development Department — East Side
Market (redevelop) — East 105th St. and St. Clair Ave. (O 384-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 471

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468

Ward 10
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Ward 11
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
West 117th St., 3519 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 389-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Ward 12
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — distributed
antenna system nodes and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 04 and 12) (O 191-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497
Dyngus Day Cleveland — Recognition (R 401-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

528

March 30, 2016

The City Record

67

Ward 13
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 481

Ward 14
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Ward 15
Bobgan, Raymond — Recognition (R 402-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dyngus Day Cleveland — Recognition (R 401-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Ave., 9815 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 393-16)

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

467
467
467
471

Ward 16
Benesh, Anne Theresa — Condolence (R 399-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establish Rockport Design Review District — West 130th St. (between Kirton Ave. and Astor
Ave.) — City Planning Commission (O 72-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Safety Education Film Series — safety education programming on drug use, violence
and crime prevention — Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation — agreement —
Community Development (Ward 16 CRF) (O 373-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St.(south of Erwin Ave. to Sprecher Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (O 73-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 485

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 519
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 485

Ward 17
Cimperman, Joe — Recognition (R 404-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467

Water Division
Caver Platform LLC, PMI Group, Inc., and LCI Construction, Inc. — contract no. RC 2015-42,
RC 2014-74, RC 2014-80 — Landscape materials supplies and services for landscaping
and tree lawns — CPP Division — Utilities Department — Water Division — WPC Division
(O 385-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469

Water Pollution Control Division (WPC)
Caver Platform LLC, PMI Group, Inc., and LCI Construction, Inc. — contract no. RC 2015-42,
RC 2014-74, RC 2014-80 — Landscape materials supplies and services for landscaping
and tree lawns — CPP Division — Utilities Department — Water Division (O 385-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469

Zoning
Castle Ave., and Buhrer Ave. (between I-71 and Quigley Rd.) — change Use Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1370-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establish Opportunity Corridor Design Review District — north and south side of the
Opportunity Corridor roadway (between East 55th St. and Cedar Ave.) — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 118-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establish Rockport Design Review District — West 130th St. (between Kirton Ave. and Astor
Ave.) — City Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 72-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St.(south of Erwin Ave. to Sprecher Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 73-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 483

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 487
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 485
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 485

Zoning Code
Adult entertainment — amend Section 347.07 (O 922-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 482

529

68

The City Record

PPPP

March 30, 2016

