The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

March the Sixteenth, Two Thousand and Sixteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

32

Board of Control

39

Civil Service

41

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

45

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
46

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

48

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

48

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

48

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

49

Committee Meetings

49

Index

49

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Christopher Diehl, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Fred Szabo, Interim Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – ____________, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – _____________, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – Edward Jamison, Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 15C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 14C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Suzan Marie Sweeney – Courtroom 12C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda
– Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016

Vol. 103

No. 5336

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2015-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson (CHAIR), Dow (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Kazy, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR),
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Kazy, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Kazy, Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Kazy, Reed.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Mitchell (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Dow, Kelley.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Mitchell, Kelley, Keane,
Zone.
Committee:
Rules
Cleveland,
(CHAIR),
Polensek, Pruitt.

Kelley
Keane,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 14, 2016
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:05 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Kevin Conwell, Brian J.
Cummins, TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Brian
Kazy, Kevin J. Kelley, Martin J.
Keane, Mamie J. Mitchell, Michael
D. Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack
Reed, and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief Operating Officer
Darnell Brown, Chief of Regional
Development Edward W. Rybka,
Chief of Education Monyka S. Price,
Media
Relations
Director
Dan
Williams, Chief of Sustainability
Jenita
McGowan
and
Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Davis, Szabo,
Spronz,
McGrath,
Cox,
O’Leary,
Nichols, Griffin, Fumich, Ambroz
and Burrows.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.

Health, City of Cleveland. Notice of
grant acceptance of $1,000 from
InHealth Mutual to support the Community
Conversation
Program.
Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 348-16.
RE: #7107930. Economic Development Transfer Application, D1 D2
D3 D6. Puente Viejo LLC, 1220
Huron Rd. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 349-16.
RE:
#09916500001.
Transfer
of
Location Application, C1. Brothers
Group Inc., 4059 Rocky River Dr.
(Ward 17). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 356-16 — Robert Jones.
Res. No. 357-16 — John Scott
Thomas.
Res. No. 361-16 — Veronica D.
Pratt-Pierce.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 358-16 — Joseph Kocab.
Res. No. 359-16 — Maurice Vail –
90th Birthday.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 360-16 — Top Ladies of
Distinction, Inc.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Pruitt, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Kazy.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 347-16.
From
Director
Jane
Fumich,
Department of Aging, City of Cleveland. Notice of grant acceptance of
$2,200 from the Sisters of Charity
Foundation of Cleveland to support
Senior Day 2016. Received.
File No. 354-16.
From Interim Director Natoya J.
Walker Minor, Department of Public

361

Ord. No. 329-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Supreme Court of Ohio for the Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the

4
approximate amount of $202,800, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term from
the Supreme Court of Ohio to conduct
the Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in the legislative summary for the grant contained
in the file described below.
Section 2. That the legislative summary for the grant, File No. 329-16-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 330-16.
By Council Members Zone, Keane
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 490.01, 490.02, 490.03, and
490.99, relating to unmanned aircraft
systems.
the
operation
of
Whereas,
unmanned aircraft systems (“UAS”)
has recently increased significantly
both locally and nationally and
numerous incidents have occurred
involving UAS operations in restricted areas without compliance with
existing Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) regulatory guidance;
and
Whereas, there is currently no legislation that regulates UAS operations in the City of Cleveland or provides specific enforcement authority
to safety officers; and
Whereas, this situation poses a significant
enforcement
issue
for
responding officers; and
Whereas, the United States Government has exclusive sovereignty of airspace of the United States under 49
U.S.C. §40103; and
Whereas, the FAA has issued Law
Enforcement Guidance For Suspected
Unauthorized UAS Operations, stating that local law enforcement agencies are often in the best position to
deter, detect, immediately investigate, and pursue enforcement actions
to stop unauthorized UAS; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by adding new Sections
490.01, 490.02, 490.03, and 490.99, to
read, respectively, as follows:
CHAPTER 490
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
Section 490.01 Definitions
As used in this chapter, certain
words and terms are defined as follows:

The City Record
(a) Unmanned Aircraft” or “UAS”
means an aircraft operated without
the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft,
weighing more than 0.55 pounds on
takeoff, including everything that is
on board or otherwise attached to the
aircraft.
(b) “Unmanned Aircraft System”
means an Unmanned Aircraft and its
associated elements (including communication links and the components
that control the Unmanned Aircraft)
that are required for the safe and efficient operation of the Unmanned Aircraft in the National Airspace System.
Section 490.02 Purpose and Intent
This Chapter is intended to promote
public safety. In consideration of this
concern, the City is restricting the use
of UAS in certain areas. It is not
intended to restrict legitimate hobbyists operating unmanned aircraft systems in compliance with FAA rules
and regulations. This Chapter is not
intended to preempt FAA rules and
regulations, but to operate in conjunction with those rules to promote public safety while recognizing the limitations in the FAA’s enforcement
capabilities.
Section 490.03 Restrictions
(a) Anyone who launches, operates,
or causes to be launched or operated,
any Unmanned Aircraft System within the limits of Cleveland, Ohio, must
be able to present, immediately upon
request by any member of the Police
or Fire Force, a current Certificate of
Aircraft Registration issued by the
Federal Aviation Administration for
the Unmanned Aircraft System.
(b) No person shall launch, operate,
or cause to be launched or operated,
any Unmanned Aircraft System in
any airspace within or over:
(1) A five (5) mile radius of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport;
(2) A five (5) mile radius of Burke
Lakefront Airport; or
(3) Any area of the City of Cleveland that the Federal Aviation
Administration determines to be a
restricted area, either by way of a
Notice to Airmen (NOTAM), Temporary Flight Restriction, No Drone
Zone, or other means.
(c) Division (b) of this section shall
not apply to any person who has previous approval from the Federal Aviation Administration to operate a
UAS in a restricted area and is complying with all terms and conditions
of their approval.
Section 490.99 Violation; Penalties
Whoever violates division (a) of
Section 490.03 of this chapter is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor. Whoever
violates division (b) of Section 490.03
of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on the
first offense, a misdemeanor of the
third degree on the second offense,
and a misdemeanor of the second
degree on the third and any subsequent offense. All violations will be
forwarded to the Federal Aviation
Administration and reviewed for possible violations of Federal civil and
criminal statutes. The Department of
Public Safety will enforce and ensure
compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take

362

March 16, 2016
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Port Control, Finance, Law;
Committees on Safety, Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 331-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
Kelley
(by
departmental
and
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into contract with the Cleveland
Municipal Football Association to
conduct a city-wide football program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
contract with the Cleveland Municipal Football Association to conduct a
city-wide football program and to pay
participant entry fees, in an amount
not to exceed $80,098, payable from
Fund No. 01-7004-6380, Request No.
RQS 7004, RL 2016-6.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 333-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of fencing and
gates, including labor and materials
for repair and installation, if necessary, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which
shall require additional legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a two year
period, with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which shall require
additional legislative authority, of
the necessary items of fencing and
gates, including labor and materials
for repair and installation, if necessary, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all items

March 16, 2016
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a delivery order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RQN 3001, RL 2016-4)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 334-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$625,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve municipal parks and
recreation facilities and authorizing
related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $625,000) (the
“Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section  1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with the
proceeds of the Bonds is at least five
years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 11  years, as evidenced by the certificate contained in
File No. 334-16-A; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and
as the same may further be amended
from time to time in accordance with
its provisions, is referred to as the
“General Bond Ordinance”), providing the general terms and provisions
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of bonds in accordance with the provisions thereof
(the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and

The City Record
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary to
provide funds to pay the costs of cerpermanent
improvements
tain
described in Section 1 hereof that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$625,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve municipal parks and
recreation facilities by constructing,
reconstructing, installing, renovating, enlarging, redeveloping and otherwise improving parks and recreation centers and areas, pools, skating rinks, greenhouses, bicycle paths,
playfields,
tracks,
playgrounds,
fields and related buildings, structures, walkways, safety surfaces,
pavement, plazas, landscaping and
facilities, and providing necessary
water systems, drainage, lighting,
signage, fixtures, furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site
improvements, together with all necessary and incidental appurtenances
and the acquisition of any required
real estate and interests in real estate
and the demolition of any existing
buildings, structures, walkways and
facilities, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section  133.01(K) of the Ohio Revised
Code and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section  133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms. The
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
provisions of Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code and other applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the General Bond Ordinance and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be designated “Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds” and may
contain such further designation as
provided in the certificate of award
providing for the final terms of the
Bonds and the sale of the Bonds
signed by the Director of Finance in
accordance with this Ordinance (the
“Certificate of Award”). The Bonds
shall be issued in one lot as fully registered Bonds in denominations of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the Certificate of Award, which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section 1
hereof. The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance and shall bear interest from their date until the principal
amount is paid at the rate or rates per
year specified in the Certificate of
Award, provided that the weighted
average of such rates (taking into
account the principal amount and
maturity of each Bond to which a rate

363

5
applies) shall not exceed 6.00% per
year. Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable when due, or until the principal amount is paid, semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 of each year
that the Bonds are outstanding, commencing June 1, 2016 (the “Interest
Payment Dates”), unless otherwise
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as shall
be permitted by law and determined
by the Director of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based
on the written advice of a financial
advisor (as defined in Section 16) to
be in the best interests of the City,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier
than November 15, 2016 and no later
than August 1, 2018, (iii) the final
maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later than 11 years from that date
which is 12 months prior to the first
date on which provision for payment
of principal is made, and (iv) the principal amount thereof shall be payable
in annual installments such that the
total principal and interest payments
on the Bonds in any fiscal year in
which principal is payable is not more
than three times the amount of those
payments in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in any
year may be issued as term bonds (the
“Term Bonds”), payable pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined in
Section  3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against the then-current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory

6
redemption obligation) of the City for
any Term Bonds. That option shall be
exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, by
furnishing the Escrow Agent a certificate, signed by the Registrar, setting forth the extent of the credit to
be applied with respect to the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by the
Escrow Agent at 100% of the principal amount thereof against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation). Any excess of that
amount over the then-current Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
shall
be
credited
Requirement
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the option
of the City, in whole or in part on any
date, in integral multiples of $5,000,
on the optional redemption dates and
at the redemption prices (expressed
as a percentage of the principal
amount redeemed) specified in the
Certificate of Award, plus, in each
case, accrued interest to the redemption date. The first optional redemption date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment
Date, and the highest redemption
price shall not be greater than 102%
of the principal amount redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date. Based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the best
interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, the Bonds, or portions thereof, to be redeemed optionally shall be selected by lot prior to
the selection by lot of the Bonds to be
redeemed on the same date by operation of the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
only upon written notice from the
Director of Finance to the Registrar.
That notice shall specify the redemption date and the principal amount of
each maturity of Bonds to be

The City Record
redeemed, and shall be given at least
45 days prior to the redemption date
or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Registrar. There
shall be deposited with the Registrar
on or prior to the redemption date
funds sufficient to redeem at the
redemption
price
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice of
redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City may
elect to purchase Bonds called for
optional redemption in lieu of redeeming those Bonds. That election shall
be exercised by written direction
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent.
That written direction shall state
whether all or less than all of the
Bonds called for optional redemption
are to be purchased by the City in lieu
of redemption, shall identify the
Bonds to be purchased by their maturity date and shall specify the principal amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for optional redemption are to be purchased in
lieu of redemption, the amount of
each maturity to be purchased shall
be in amounts of $5,000 or integral
multiples of $5,000. Any Bonds called
for optional redemption that are not
to be purchased shall be redeemed in
accordance with their redemption provisions. The purchase price of the
Bonds to be purchased in lieu of
redemption shall be equal to the principal of, any accrued but unpaid interest on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners of
the Bonds in addition to the notice of
redemption required by this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, shall not purchase Bonds if sufficient moneys
have not been deposited with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, by the City for the purpose. On
or prior to the scheduled date for
optional redemption, the City may
rescind its direction to purchase the
Bonds in lieu of redemption by written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. In the event that the
direction to purchase is rescinded, the
Bonds shall be redeemed on the
redemption date set forth in the notice
of redemption delivered to the owners
of the Bonds and in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption at one time (whether for redemption or purchase in lieu of redemption), they shall be called in the order
of maturities directed by the Director
of Finance. If fewer than all Bonds of
a single maturity are to be redeemed
or purchased in lieu of redemption,
the selection of Bonds to be redeemed
or purchased, or portions thereof in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the
Registrar by lot in a manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of
a partial redemption or purchase of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of the

364

March 16, 2016
denomination of $5,000. If it is determined that one or more, but not all of
the $5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be called
for redemption, then upon notice of
redemption of a $5,000 unit or units,
the registered owner of that Bond
shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption
or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued to the date fixed for redemption and any premium), and (ii) for
issuance, without charge to the registered owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured portion of the Bond not
redeemed or purchased and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the amounts
due upon redemption are payable.
The notice shall be given by the Registrar on behalf of the City by mailing
a copy of the redemption notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, at
least 30 days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part at the registered owner’s address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of
business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any provider
of a Credit Support Instrument (as
defined in Section 15 hereof) for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Bond, however, shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may specify that the redemption is contingent
on the deposit of moneys with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, on or prior to the redemption
date in an amount sufficient to pay
the redemption price of the Bonds to
be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the manner provided in the preceding paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the Escrow
Agent or Registrar, as paying agent,
in an amount sufficient to pay the
redemption price, the Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption
shall become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption
of all of the Bonds and portions thereof to be redeemed, including interest
accrued to the redemption date, is
held by the Registrar on the redemption date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the
redemption date, or that notice shall

March 16, 2016
not have been deposited in the mail,
those Bonds and portions thereof
shall continue to bear interest, until
they are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money held
by the Registrar for the redemption of
particular Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered owners and shall be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without
deduction for the services of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent. Principal shall be payable
when due upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid
on each Interest Payment Date by
check or draft mailed to the person in
whose name the Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register (as defined
in Section  3 hereof) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Registrar Agreement authorized and
defined in Section  3 hereof (the
“Record Date”). Notwithstanding any
contrary provision in the General
Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds
are held by a Depository in a bookentry system (as described in Section  3 hereof), debt charges on the
Bonds will be payable in lawful
money of the United States by wire
transfer to the Depository made by
the Escrow Agent on each Interest
Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance. The General Bond Ordinance, except for the third paragraph
of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment of the interest
rate in an event of default) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 (pertaining generally to the periods during
which the City is not required to make
any transfers or exchanges of bonds
issued under the General Bond Ordinance), will apply to the Bonds.
Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a
part of this Ordinance as fully as if
restated in this Ordinance. Words and
terms not otherwise defined in this
Ordinance shall have the same meaning as set forth in the General Bond
Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of the
Bonds; Paying Agents. The Bonds
shall express upon their faces the purpose for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance. Pursuant to Section  4 of
the General Bond Ordinance, each
Bond shall be authenticated by the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee (as defined
therein). The Bonds shall be signed
by the City’s Mayor and by the City’s
Director of Finance, and, consistent
with Section  133.27 of the Ohio
Revised Code and notwithstanding
Section  177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either or both of
those signatures may be a facsimile.
The Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section  83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Bonds and shall
endorse thereon the Director of Law’s
approval of the form thereof by the
Director of Law’s manual or facsimile
signature.

The City Record
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, bond registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Bonds (the
“Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall
also act as paying agent for the Bonds
so long as the Bonds are held in a
book-entry system. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, an agreement among the
City, Registrar and Escrow Agent
(the
“Registrar
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, providing for services relating
to
the
registration,
transfer,
exchange and payment of the Bonds
on terms approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City and consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City.
That approval shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Registrar Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available and then from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at its
principal corporate trust office all
books and records necessary for the
registration, exchange and transfer
of Bonds as provided in this Section
(the “Bond Register”). The person in
whose name a Bond is registered on
the Bond Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Bond, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender
at the principal corporate trust office
of the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond may
be transferred only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender
of the Bond at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar together
with an assignment signed by the registered owner or by a person legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar

365

7
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or
other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid obligations of
the City, evidencing the same debt,
and entitled to the same security and
benefit under this Ordinance, as the
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book-entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book-entry form” or “book-entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds and the principal of and interest on the Bonds may
be transferred only through a book
entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are
issued by the City only to a Depository or its nominee as registered owner,
with the Bonds “immobilized” in the
custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than the
City is the record that identifies the
owners of beneficial interests in those
Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book-entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds, in book-entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book-entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers,
banks and trust companies, and clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book-entry
system and, if and as long as a bookentry system is utilized: (i) the Bonds
may be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Bond representing
each maturity and registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository;
(ii) the beneficial owners in bookentry form shall have no right to
receive Bonds in the form of physical
securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in bookentry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry by
the Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Bonds as such shall not
be transferable or exchangeable,
except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a Depository, without further action by the
City.

8
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Bonds for use in a book-entry system,
the Director of Finance may attempt
establish
a
securities
to
depository/book-entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Registrar, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and Registrar shall authenticate and deliver
bond certificates in registered form to
the assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized to the extent necessary or required to enter into any
agreements determined necessary in
connection with the book-entry system for the Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of the
form of any such agreement by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The Bonds
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Bonds and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to the
Original Purchaser in the Certificate
of Award which shall specify the
final terms of the Bonds in accordance with law, the provisions of this
Ordinance, the written advice of a
financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Bonds, the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount of
the Bonds plus any accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), the Interest Payment
Dates and the date of the Bonds and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and
certificates, to cause a true transcript
of proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any

The City Record
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City a
bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Bonds and the Original Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds, which
shall be consistent with this Ordinance, not substantially adverse to
the City, and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in this
Ordinance and as may be provided in
or pursuant to the Certificate of
Award, are in the best interest of the
City and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds with
other bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bonds, Series 2016” or such other designation as may be set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Such bonds
shall contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Bonds are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds promptly when and as the same falls due,
and also to provide for the discharge
of the Bonds at maturity, there shall
be and is levied on all the taxable
property in the City, in addition to all
other taxes, a direct tax annually during the period the Bonds are outstanding, in an amount sufficient to
provide for the payment of that interest, when and as the same shall fall
due, and also to discharge the principal of the Bonds at maturity, which
tax shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be within the ten-mill
limitation imposed by law, shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general
purposes for each of those years are
certified, extended and collected, and
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the full
amount thereof. The funds derived
from those tax levies shall be placed
in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the Sinking Fund as
required by the General Bond Ordinance, and those funds, together with
the interest collected on them, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same fall
due; provided, however, that, subject
to the provisions of Section  8 of the

366

March 16, 2016
General Bond Ordinance, in each year
to the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of
such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available
and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections  133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt charges
for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds are
issued. The proceeds of the Bonds to
be applied to pay costs of any Credit
Support Instruments obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be
paid to the provider or providers of
those Credit Support Instruments.
The proceeds of the Bonds to be used
to pay costs of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar
Agreement pending their application
to the payment of such costs. Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance, and
notwithstanding Chapter 179 of the
Codified Ordinances, any accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges and
liens authorized by the General Bond
Ordinance and, in addition to the
taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Bonds are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section  5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and
discharged all the outstanding Bonds,
or there shall otherwise be paid to the
holders of the outstanding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request

March 16, 2016
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or subaccounts, in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or
redemption dates, of all debt charges
on the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the date
of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds are to be
redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall
have been duly given or irrevocable
provision satisfactory to the Trustee
shall have been duly made for the giving of such notice. Any moneys held
by the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient
to meet payment of debt charges on
the Bonds, as directed by the Director
of Finance. Any income or interest
earned by, or increment to, the investments held under this Section shall, to
the extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of
such determination as provided in
Section  17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent. In the event of
nonpresentment of any Bond as
described in Section 17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held
pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section  17(a) for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof, notes of the City may be
issued in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $625,000 (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the  “Note Certificate of
Award”).

The City Record
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding 4.00% per year, as may be
fixed by the Director of Finance of
the City in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be dated their date of
issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award,
which shall be no later than five
years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, provided that, if the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated
“Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes”; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book-entry only system)
in denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semiannually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth month following their date of
issuance, interest on the Notes shall
be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Notes (the “Note
Registrar”). The Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the
Notes if the Notes are held in a bookentry system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the “Note
Registrar Agreement”) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes on terms that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Note Registrar to maintain and keep
at its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Note shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither
the City nor the Note Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the

367

9
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination
upon presentation and surrender at
the principal corporate trust office of
the Note Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. A Note
may be transferred only on the Note
Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer the
Registrar
shall
complete,
Note
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by
the owner equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of
the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Note Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Note Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Note Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Notes issued and authenticated upon any exchange or transfer shall be valid obligations of the
City, evidencing the same debt, and
entitled to the same security and benefit under this Ordinance, as the Notes
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes with
other bond anticipation notes of the
City for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for
which the Notes are issued and shall
state that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance.
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which they
are issued and that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance. Each Note
shall be authenticated by the manual
signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance, and, consistent with Section
133.27 of the Ohio Revised Code and
notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City,
either or both of those signatures may
be a facsimile. The Notes shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes and

10
shall endorse thereon the Director of
Law’s approval of the form thereof by
the Director of Law’s manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Notes and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the
principal amount set forth in a certificate of award to be executed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”) at not less than par
and accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section 10
hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund and
used for the purpose for which the
Notes are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Notes are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance. The par value to be received
from the sale of the Bonds or of any
renewal notes and any excess funds
resulting from the issuance of the
Notes shall, to the extent necessary,
be used to pay the debt charges on the
Notes at maturity and are pledged for
that purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all the
taxable property in the City, in addition to all other taxes but within tax
limitations, a direct tax annually not
less than that which would have been
levied if bonds had been issued therefor without the prior issue of the
Notes. That tax shall be and is
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers, in
the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes
for each year are certified, extended
and collected. That tax shall be
placed before and in preference to all
other items and for the full amount
thereof. The funds derived from the
tax levies required by this Ordinance
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account, and
those funds, together with the interest collected on them, shall be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the
principal and interest of the Notes or
the Bonds in anticipation of which
they are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in

The City Record
each year to the extent that revenues
are available from other sources for
the payment of the Notes and Bonds
and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of such direct tax
upon all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate,
which shall constitute the continuing
disclosure agreement made by the
City for the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners of the Notes or the
Bonds, as the case may be, in accordance with the SEC Rule. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and
their annual appropriation to meet
costs the City would be required to
incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this

368

March 16, 2016
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Bonds and
the Notes authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed
to alter or restrict such full application of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Bonds and the Notes authorized herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a) and
the third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant to
Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are for
convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections of
this Ordinance.
Section 14. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Notes and the Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds
or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141
or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the “Code”) or (ii)
be treated other than as bonds the
interest on which is excluded from
gross income under Section 103 of the
Code, and (b) the interest thereon
will not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section  57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Notes and the
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Notes and the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds as
the City is permitted or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section  148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu

March 16, 2016
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts or
payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing
and signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf of
the City, as may be appropriate to
assure the exclusion of interest from
gross income and the intended tax
status of the Notes and the Bonds, and
(c) to give one or more appropriate
certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting forth
the reasonable expectations of the
City regarding the amount and use of
all the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Bonds
or any Notes (a “Credit Support
Instrument”).
The
Director
of
Finance may request a rating on the
Bonds or Notes from one or more
nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things and
take any and all actions required to
secure a Credit Support Instrument
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds or Notes. The Director of
Finance may enter into one or more
agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing terms not materially inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Bonds or Notes to the extent available
and otherwise from any other funds
lawfully available that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in

The City Record
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and any
Note Certificate of Award to the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 20. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City

369

11
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 335-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$4,750,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve buildings and structures housing and providing for the
discharge of governmental functions
and services otherwise benefiting the
public safety, health and welfare and
for the provision of necessary fixtures, furnishings, equipment, technology, appurtenances, utilities, and
site improvements for the purpose
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $4,750,000 (the
“Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section  1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with the
proceeds of the Bonds is at least five
years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 10  years, as evidenced by the certificate contained in
File No. 335-16-A; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and
as the same may further be amended
from time to time in accordance with
its provisions, is referred to as the
“General Bond Ordinance”), providing the general terms and provisions
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of bonds in accordance with the provisions thereof
(the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary to
provide funds to pay the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 hereof that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$4,750,000 for the purpose of providing
funds for constructing, reconstructing, installing, renovating, enlarging

12
and otherwise improving buildings
and structures housing and providing
for the discharge of governmental
functions and services otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and
welfare, including facilities in, of and
for the City Hall, police stations, fire
stations, service stations, centers and
facilities, waste collection, market
facilities, transfer and disposal facilities, correctional facilities, and
health and other facilities, to improve
technology used in providing city services, including telecommunications
equipment and computer hardware
and software, and for the provision of
fixtures,
furnishings,
necessary
equipment,
technology,
appurtenances, utilities, and site improvements for the purpose, and to pay any
capitalized interest and all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the securities, including
all financing costs within the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the Ohio
Revised Code and such other costs of
the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with the
proceeds of securities as permitted by
Section 133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms. The
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
provisions of Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code and other applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the General Bond Ordinance and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bonds” and may contain such
further designation as provided in the
certificate of award providing for the
final terms of the Bonds and the sale
of the Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the Certificate of Award, which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section 1
hereof. The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance and shall bear interest from their date until the principal
amount is paid at the rate or rates per
year specified in the Certificate of
Award, provided that the weighted
average of such rates (taking into
account the principal amount and
maturity of each Bond to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed 6.00% per
year. Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable when due, or until the principal amount is paid, semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 of each year
that the Bonds are outstanding, commencing June 1, 2016 (the “Interest
Payment Dates”), unless otherwise
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as shall
be permitted by law and determined
by the Director of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based
on the written advice of a financial
advisor (as defined in Section 16) to
be in the best interests of the City,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier

The City Record
than November 15, 2016 and no later
than August 1, 2018, (iii) the final
maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later than 10 years from that date
which is 12 months prior to the first
date on which provision for payment
of principal is made, and (iv) the principal amount thereof shall be payable
in annual installments such that the
total principal and interest payments
on the Bonds in any fiscal year in
which principal is payable is not more
than three times the amount of those
payments in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in any
year may be issued as term bonds (the
“Term Bonds”), payable pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined in
Section  3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against the then-current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City for
any Term Bonds. That option shall be
exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, by
furnishing the Escrow Agent a certificate, signed by the Registrar, setting forth the extent of the credit to
be applied with respect to the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that

370

March 16, 2016
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by the
Escrow Agent at 100% of the principal amount thereof against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corremandatory
redemption
sponding
obligation). Any excess of that
amount over the then-current Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirement
shall
be
credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
corresponding
mandatory
(and
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the option
of the City, in whole or in part on any
date, in integral multiples of $5,000,
on the optional redemption dates and
at the redemption prices (expressed
as a percentage of the principal
amount redeemed) specified in the
Certificate of Award, plus, in each
case, accrued interest to the redemption date. The first optional redemption date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment
Date, and the highest redemption
price shall not be greater than 102%
of the principal amount redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date. Based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the best
interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, the Bonds, or portions thereof, to be redeemed optionally shall be selected by lot prior to
the selection by lot of the Bonds to be
redeemed on the same date by operation of the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
only upon written notice from the
Director of Finance to the Registrar.
That notice shall specify the redemption date and the principal amount of
each maturity of Bonds to be
redeemed, and shall be given at least
45 days prior to the redemption date
or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Registrar. There
shall be deposited with the Registrar
on or prior to the redemption date
funds sufficient to redeem at the
redemption
price
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice of
redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City may
elect to purchase Bonds called for
optional redemption in lieu of redeeming those Bonds. That election shall
be exercised by written direction
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent.
That written direction shall state
whether all or less than all of the
Bonds called for optional redemption

March 16, 2016
are to be purchased by the City in lieu
of redemption, shall identify the
Bonds to be purchased by their maturity date and shall specify the principal amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for optional redemption are to be purchased in
lieu of redemption, the amount of
each maturity to be purchased shall
be in amounts of $5,000 or integral
multiples of $5,000. Any Bonds called
for optional redemption that are not
to be purchased shall be redeemed in
accordance with their redemption provisions. The purchase price of the
Bonds to be purchased in lieu of
redemption shall be equal to the principal of, any accrued but unpaid interest on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners of
the Bonds in addition to the notice of
redemption required by this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, shall not purchase Bonds if sufficient moneys
have not been deposited with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, by the City for the purpose. On
or prior to the scheduled date for
optional redemption, the City may
rescind its direction to purchase the
Bonds in lieu of redemption by written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. In the event that the
direction to purchase is rescinded, the
Bonds shall be redeemed on the
redemption date set forth in the notice
of redemption delivered to the owners
of the Bonds and in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption at one time (whether for redemption or purchase in lieu of redemption), they shall be called in the order
of maturities directed by the Director
of Finance. If fewer than all Bonds of
a single maturity are to be redeemed
or purchased in lieu of redemption,
the selection of Bonds to be redeemed
or purchased, or portions thereof in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the
Registrar by lot in a manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of
a partial redemption or purchase of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of the
denomination of $5,000. If it is determined that one or more, but not all of
the $5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be called
for redemption, then upon notice of
redemption of a $5,000 unit or units,
the registered owner of that Bond
shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption
or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued to the date fixed for redemption and any premium), and (ii) for
issuance, without charge to the registered owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured portion of the Bond not
redeemed or purchased and bearing

The City Record
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the amounts
due upon redemption are payable.
The notice shall be given by the Registrar on behalf of the City by mailing
a copy of the redemption notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, at
least 30 days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part at the registered owner’s address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of
business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any provider
of a Credit Support Instrument (as
defined in Section 15 hereof) for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Bond, however, shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may specify that the redemption is contingent
on the deposit of moneys with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, on or prior to the redemption
date in an amount sufficient to pay
the redemption price of the Bonds to
be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the manner provided in the preceding paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the Escrow
Agent or Registrar, as paying agent,
in an amount sufficient to pay the
redemption price, the Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption
shall become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption
of all of the Bonds and portions thereof to be redeemed, including interest
accrued to the redemption date, is
held by the Registrar on the redemption date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the
redemption date, or that notice shall
not have been deposited in the mail,
those Bonds and portions thereof
shall continue to bear interest, until
they are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money held
by the Registrar for the redemption of
particular Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered owners and shall be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without
deduction for the services of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent. Principal shall be payable
when due upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid

371

13
on each Interest Payment Date by
check or draft mailed to the person in
whose name the Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register (as defined
in Section  3 hereof) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Registrar Agreement authorized and
defined in Section  3 hereof (the
“Record Date”). Notwithstanding any
contrary provision in the General
Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds
are held by a Depository in a bookentry system (as described in Section  3 hereof), debt charges on the
Bonds will be payable in lawful
money of the United States by wire
transfer to the Depository made by
the Escrow Agent on each Interest
Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance. The General Bond Ordinance, except for the third paragraph
of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment of the interest
rate in an event of default) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 (pertaining generally to the periods during
which the City is not required to make
any transfers or exchanges of bonds
issued under the General Bond Ordinance), will apply to the Bonds.
Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a
part of this Ordinance as fully as if
restated in this Ordinance. Words and
terms not otherwise defined in this
Ordinance shall have the same meaning as set forth in the General Bond
Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of the
Bonds; Paying Agents. The Bonds
shall express upon their faces the purpose for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance. Pursuant to Section  4 of
the General Bond Ordinance, each
Bond shall be authenticated by the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee (as defined
therein). The Bonds shall be signed
by the City’s Mayor and by the City’s
Director of Finance, and, consistent
with Section  133.27 of the Ohio
Revised Code and notwithstanding
Section  177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either or both of
those signatures may be a facsimile.
The Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section  83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Bonds and shall
endorse thereon the Director of Law’s
approval of the form thereof by the
Director of Law’s manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, bond registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Bonds (the
“Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall
also act as paying agent for the Bonds
so long as the Bonds are held in a
book-entry system. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, an agreement among the
City, Registrar and Escrow Agent
(the
“Registrar
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, providing for services relating
to
the
registration,
transfer,
exchange and payment of the Bonds
on terms approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City and consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City.

14
That approval shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Registrar Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available and then from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at its
principal corporate trust office all
books and records necessary for the
registration, exchange and transfer
of Bonds as provided in this Section
(the “Bond Register”). The person in
whose name a Bond is registered on
the Bond Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Bond, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender
at the principal corporate trust office
of the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond may
be transferred only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender
of the Bond at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar together
with an assignment signed by the registered owner or by a person legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or
other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid obligations of
the City, evidencing the same debt,
and entitled to the same security and
benefit under this Ordinance, as the
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer.

The City Record
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book-entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book-entry form” or “book-entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds and the principal of and interest on the Bonds may
be transferred only through a book
entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are
issued by the City only to a Depository or its nominee as registered owner,
with the Bonds “immobilized” in the
custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than the
City is the record that identifies the
owners of beneficial interests in those
Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book-entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds, in book-entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book-entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers,
banks and trust companies, and clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book-entry
system and, if and as long as a bookentry system is utilized: (i) the Bonds
may be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Bond representing
each maturity and registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository;
(ii) the beneficial owners in bookentry form shall have no right to
receive Bonds in the form of physical
securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in bookentry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry by
the Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Bonds as such shall not
be transferable or exchangeable,
except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a Depository, without further action by the
City.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Bonds for use in a book-entry system,
the Director of Finance may attempt
to
establish
a
securities
depository/book-entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Registrar, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and Registrar shall authenticate and deliver
bond certificates in registered form to
the assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if

372

March 16, 2016
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized to the extent necessary or required to enter into any
agreements determined necessary in
connection with the book-entry system for the Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of the
form of any such agreement by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The Bonds
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Bonds and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to the
Original Purchaser in the Certificate
of Award which shall specify the
final terms of the Bonds in accordance with law, the provisions of this
Ordinance, the written advice of a
financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Bonds, the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount of
the Bonds plus any accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), the Interest Payment
Dates and the date of the Bonds and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and
certificates, to cause a true transcript
of proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City a
bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Bonds and the Original Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds, which
shall be consistent with this Ordinance, not substantially adverse to

March 16, 2016
the City, and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in this
Ordinance and as may be provided in
or pursuant to the Certificate of
Award, are in the best interest of the
City and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds with
other bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bonds, Series 2016” or such other designation as may be set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Such bonds
shall contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Bonds are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds promptly when and as the same falls due,
and also to provide for the discharge
of the Bonds at maturity, there shall
be and is levied on all the taxable
property in the City, in addition to all
other taxes, a direct tax annually during the period the Bonds are outstanding, in an amount sufficient to
provide for the payment of that interest, when and as the same shall fall
due, and also to discharge the principal of the Bonds at maturity, which
tax shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be within the ten-mill
limitation imposed by law, shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general
purposes for each of those years are
certified, extended and collected, and
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the full
amount thereof. The funds derived
from those tax levies shall be placed
in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the Sinking Fund as
required by the General Bond Ordinance, and those funds, together with
the interest collected on them, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same fall
due; provided, however, that, subject
to the provisions of Section  8 of the
General Bond Ordinance, in each year
to the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of
such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available
and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections  133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt charges
for the Bonds.

The City Record
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds are
issued. The proceeds of the Bonds to
be applied to pay costs of any Credit
Support Instruments obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be
paid to the provider or providers of
those Credit Support Instruments.
The proceeds of the Bonds to be used
to pay costs of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar
Agreement pending their application
to the payment of such costs. Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance, and
notwithstanding Chapter 179 of the
Codified Ordinances, any accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges and
liens authorized by the General Bond
Ordinance and, in addition to the
taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Bonds are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and
discharged all the outstanding Bonds,
or there shall otherwise be paid to the
holders of the outstanding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or subaccounts, in

373

15
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or
redemption dates, of all debt charges
on the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the date
of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds are to be
redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall
have been duly given or irrevocable
provision satisfactory to the Trustee
shall have been duly made for the giving of such notice. Any moneys held
by the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient
to meet payment of debt charges on
the Bonds, as directed by the Director
of Finance. Any income or interest
earned by, or increment to, the investments held under this Section shall, to
the extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of
such determination as provided in
Section  17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent. In the event of
nonpresentment of any Bond as
described in Section 17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held
pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section  17(a) for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof, notes of the City may be
issued in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $4,750,000 (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the  “Note Certificate of
Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding 4.00% per year, as may be
fixed by the Director of Finance of
the City in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be dated their date of
issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award,
which shall be no later than five
years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, provided that, if the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two

16
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bond
Anticipation Notes”; shall be issued in
such numbers and denominations as
may be requested by the Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined); and
shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book-entry
only system) in denominations of
$5,000 or integral multiples thereof.
Interest shall be payable semiannually on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that if
the Notes mature on or before the end
of the twelfth month following their
date of issuance, interest on the Notes
shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Notes (the “Note
Registrar”). The Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the
Notes if the Notes are held in a bookentry system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the “Note
Registrar Agreement”) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes on terms that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Note Registrar to maintain and keep
at its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Note shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither
the City nor the Note Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination
upon presentation and surrender at
the principal corporate trust office of
the Note Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. A Note
may be transferred only on the Note
Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer the
Note
Registrar
shall
complete,

The City Record
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by
the owner equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of
the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Note Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Note Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Note Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Notes issued and authenticated upon any exchange or transfer shall be valid obligations of the
City, evidencing the same debt, and
entitled to the same security and benefit under this Ordinance, as the Notes
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes with
other bond anticipation notes of the
City for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for
which the Notes are issued and shall
state that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance.
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which they
are issued and that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance. Each Note
shall be authenticated by the manual
signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance, and, consistent with Section
133.27 of the Ohio Revised Code and
notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City,
either or both of those signatures may
be a facsimile. The Notes shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes and
shall endorse thereon the Director of
Law’s approval of the form thereof by
the Director of Law’s manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Notes and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the
principal amount set forth in a certificate of award to be executed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”) at not less than par

374

March 16, 2016
and accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section 10
hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund and
used for the purpose for which the
Notes are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Notes are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance. The par value to be received
from the sale of the Bonds or of any
renewal notes and any excess funds
resulting from the issuance of the
Notes shall, to the extent necessary,
be used to pay the debt charges on the
Notes at maturity and are pledged for
that purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all the
taxable property in the City, in addition to all other taxes but within tax
limitations, a direct tax annually not
less than that which would have been
levied if bonds had been issued therefor without the prior issue of the
Notes. That tax shall be and is
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers, in
the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes
for each year are certified, extended
and collected. That tax shall be
placed before and in preference to all
other items and for the full amount
thereof. The funds derived from the
tax levies required by this Ordinance
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account, and
those funds, together with the interest collected on them, shall be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the
principal and interest of the Notes or
the Bonds in anticipation of which
they are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues
are available from other sources for
the payment of the Notes and Bonds
and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of such direct tax
upon all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary

March 16, 2016
supplements and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate,
which shall constitute the continuing
disclosure agreement made by the
City for the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners of the Notes or the
Bonds, as the case may be, in accordance with the SEC Rule. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and
their annual appropriation to meet
costs the City would be required to
incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Bonds and
the Notes authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed
to alter or restrict such full application of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Bonds and the Notes authorized herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a) and
the third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant to
Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are for
convenience only and in no way

The City Record
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections of
this Ordinance.
Section 14. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Notes and the Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds
or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141
or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the “Code”) or (ii)
be treated other than as bonds the
interest on which is excluded from
gross income under Section 103 of the
Code, and (b) the interest thereon
will not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section  57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Notes and the
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Notes and the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds as
the City is permitted or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section  148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts or
payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing
and signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf of
the City, as may be appropriate to
assure the exclusion of interest from
gross income and the intended tax
status of the Notes and the Bonds, and
(c) to give one or more appropriate
certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting forth
the reasonable expectations of the

375

17
City regarding the amount and use of
all the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Bonds
or any Notes (a “Credit Support
The
Director
of
Instrument”).
Finance may request a rating on the
Bonds or Notes from one or more
nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things and
take any and all actions required to
secure a Credit Support Instrument
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds or Notes. The Director of
Finance may enter into one or more
agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing terms not materially inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Bonds or Notes to the extent available
and otherwise from any other funds
lawfully available that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds

18
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and any
Note Certificate of Award to the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 20. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 336-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$22,750,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal
street system and related facilities
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $22,750,000 (the
“Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section  1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with the
proceeds of the Bonds is at least five
years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 17  years, as evidenced by the certificate contained in
File No. 336-16-A; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and
as the same may further be amended
from time to time in accordance with
its provisions, is referred to as the
“General Bond Ordinance”), providing the general terms and provisions
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of bonds in accordance with the provisions thereof
(the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary to
provide funds to pay the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 hereof that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed necessary to issue the Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$22,750,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal
street system and related facilities,
including streets, expressways, roadways,
driveways,
underground
vaults, sidewalks, bikeways and
walkways, by acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, opening, extending, widening, grading, draining,
paving, resurfacing, sealing, lighting
and curbing, removing or reconstructing underground vaults to preserve
the public right of way, removing and
replacing trees within the public
right of way, installing gutters, sidewalks and related pedestrian and
cyclist improvements, constructing
and improving culverts, resetting and
constructing catch basins and other
storm drainage facilities, constructing, reconstructing, replacing, renovating and improving bridges, acquiring any real estate and interests in
real estate, including easements, necessary
for
such
purpose,
and
installing signs, signals, markings
and other devices for traffic control

376

March 16, 2016
purposes, together with all necessary
and incidental appurtenances, and to
pay any capitalized interest and all
expenses incurred in connection with
the issuance of the securities, including all financing costs within the
meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the
Ohio Revised Code and such other
costs of the foregoing permanent
improvements that may be financed
with the proceeds of securities as permitted by Section  133.15(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code and as otherwise
permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms. The
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
provisions of Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code and other applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the General Bond Ordinance and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be designated “Bridges and Roadways
Improvement Bonds” and may contain such further designation as provided in the certificate of award providing for the final terms of the Bonds
and the sale of the Bonds signed by
the Director of Finance in accordance
with this Ordinance (the “Certificate
of Award”). The Bonds shall be issued
in one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the Certificate of Award, which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section 1
hereof. The Bonds shall be dated their
date of issuance and shall bear interest from their date until the principal
amount is paid at the rate or rates per
year specified in the Certificate of
Award, provided that the weighted
average of such rates (taking into
account the principal amount and
maturity of each Bond to which a rate
applies) shall not exceed 6.00% per
year. Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable when due, or until the principal amount is paid, semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 of each year
that the Bonds are outstanding, commencing June 1, 2016 (the “Interest
Payment Dates”), unless otherwise
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as shall
be permitted by law and determined
by the Director of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based
on the written advice of a financial
advisor (as defined in Section 16) to
be in the best interests of the City,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier
than November 15, 2016 and no later
than August 1, 2018, (iii)  the final
maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later than 17 years from that date
which is 12 months prior to the first
date on which provision for payment
of principal is made, and (iv) the principal amount thereof shall be payable
in annual installments such that the
total principal and interest payments
on the Bonds in any fiscal year in
which principal is payable is not more
than three times the amount of those
payments in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in any
year may be issued as term bonds (the
“Term Bonds”), payable pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption

March 16, 2016
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined in
Section  3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against the then-current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City for
any Term Bonds. That option shall be
exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, by
furnishing the Escrow Agent a certificate, signed by the Registrar, setting forth the extent of the credit to
be applied with respect to the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by the
Escrow Agent at 100% of the principal amount thereof against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation). Any excess of that

The City Record
amount over the then-current MandaSinking
Fund
Redemption
tory
Requirement
shall
be
credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the option
of the City, in whole or in part on any
date, in integral multiples of $5,000,
on the optional redemption dates and
at the redemption prices (expressed
as a percentage of the principal
amount redeemed) specified in the
Certificate of Award, plus, in each
case, accrued interest to the redemption date. The first optional redemption date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment
Date, and the highest redemption
price shall not be greater than 102%
of the principal amount redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date. Based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the best
interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, the Bonds, or portions thereof, to be redeemed optionally shall be selected by lot prior to
the selection by lot of the Bonds to be
redeemed on the same date by operation of the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
only upon written notice from the
Director of Finance to the Registrar.
That notice shall specify the redemption date and the principal amount of
each maturity of Bonds to be
redeemed, and shall be given at least
45 days prior to the redemption date
or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Registrar. There
shall be deposited with the Registrar
on or prior to the redemption date
funds sufficient to redeem at the
redemption
price
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice of
redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City may
elect to purchase Bonds called for
optional redemption in lieu of redeeming those Bonds. That election shall
be exercised by written direction
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent.
That written direction shall state
whether all or less than all of the
Bonds called for optional redemption
are to be purchased by the City in lieu
of redemption, shall identify the
Bonds to be purchased by their maturity date and shall specify the principal amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for optional redemption are to be purchased in
lieu of redemption, the amount of
each maturity to be purchased shall
be in amounts of $5,000 or integral
multiples of $5,000. Any Bonds called
for optional redemption that are not
to be purchased shall be redeemed in
accordance with their redemption provisions. The purchase price of the
Bonds to be purchased in lieu of

377

19
redemption shall be equal to the principal of, any accrued but unpaid interest on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners of
the Bonds in addition to the notice of
redemption required by this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, shall not purchase Bonds if sufficient moneys
have not been deposited with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, by the City for the purpose. On
or prior to the scheduled date for
optional redemption, the City may
rescind its direction to purchase the
Bonds in lieu of redemption by written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. In the event that the
direction to purchase is rescinded, the
Bonds shall be redeemed on the
redemption date set forth in the notice
of redemption delivered to the owners
of the Bonds and in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption at one time (whether for redemption or purchase in lieu of redemption), they shall be called in the order
of maturities directed by the Director
of Finance. If fewer than all Bonds of
a single maturity are to be redeemed
or purchased in lieu of redemption,
the selection of Bonds to be redeemed
or purchased, or portions thereof in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the
Registrar by lot in a manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of
a partial redemption or purchase of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of the
denomination of $5,000. If it is determined that one or more, but not all of
the $5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be called
for redemption, then upon notice of
redemption of a $5,000 unit or units,
the registered owner of that Bond
shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption
or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued to the date fixed for redemption and any premium), and (ii) for
issuance, without charge to the registered owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured portion of the Bond not
redeemed or purchased and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the amounts
due upon redemption are payable.
The notice shall be given by the Registrar on behalf of the City by mailing
a copy of the redemption notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, at
least 30 days prior to the date fixed

20
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part at the registered owner’s address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of
business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any provider
of a Credit Support Instrument (as
defined in Section 15 hereof) for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Bond, however, shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may specify that the redemption is contingent
on the deposit of moneys with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, on or prior to the redemption
date in an amount sufficient to pay
the redemption price of the Bonds to
be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the manner provided in the preceding paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the Escrow
Agent or Registrar, as paying agent,
in an amount sufficient to pay the
redemption price, the Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption
shall become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption
of all of the Bonds and portions thereof to be redeemed, including interest
accrued to the redemption date, is
held by the Registrar on the redemption date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the
redemption date, or that notice shall
not have been deposited in the mail,
those Bonds and portions thereof
shall continue to bear interest, until
they are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money held
by the Registrar for the redemption of
particular Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered owners and shall be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without
deduction for the services of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent. Principal shall be payable
when due upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid
on each Interest Payment Date by
check or draft mailed to the person in
whose name the Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register (as defined
in Section  3 hereof) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Registrar Agreement authorized and
defined in Section  3 hereof (the
“Record Date”). Notwithstanding any
contrary provision in the General
Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds
are held by a Depository in a bookentry system (as described in Section  3 hereof), debt charges on the
Bonds will be payable in lawful
money of the United States by wire

The City Record
transfer to the Depository made by
the Escrow Agent on each Interest
Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance. The General Bond Ordinance, except for the third paragraph
of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment of the interest
rate in an event of default) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 (pertaining generally to the periods during
which the City is not required to make
any transfers or exchanges of bonds
issued under the General Bond Ordinance), will apply to the Bonds.
Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a
part of this Ordinance as fully as if
restated in this Ordinance. Words and
terms not otherwise defined in this
Ordinance shall have the same meaning as set forth in the General Bond
Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of the
Bonds; Paying Agents. The Bonds
shall express upon their faces the purpose for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance. Pursuant to Section  4 of
the General Bond Ordinance, each
Bond shall be authenticated by the
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee (as defined
therein). The Bonds shall be signed
by the City’s Mayor and by the City’s
Director of Finance, and, consistent
with Section  133.27 of the Ohio
Revised Code and notwithstanding
Section  177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either or both of
those signatures may be a facsimile.
The Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section  83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Bonds and shall
endorse thereon the Director of Law’s
approval of the form thereof by the
Director of Law’s manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, bond registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Bonds (the
“Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall
also act as paying agent for the Bonds
so long as the Bonds are held in a
book-entry system. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, an agreement among the
City, Registrar and Escrow Agent
(the
“Registrar
Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, providing for services relating
to
the
registration,
transfer,
exchange and payment of the Bonds
on terms approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City and consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City.
That approval shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Registrar Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available and then from other money
lawfully available and appropriated
or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at its
principal corporate trust office all
books and records necessary for the

378

March 16, 2016
registration, exchange and transfer
of Bonds as provided in this Section
(the “Bond Register”). The person in
whose name a Bond is registered on
the Bond Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Bond, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender
at the principal corporate trust office
of the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond may
be transferred only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender
of the Bond at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar together
with an assignment signed by the registered owner or by a person legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or
other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid obligations of
the City, evidencing the same debt,
and entitled to the same security and
benefit under this Ordinance, as the
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book-entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book-entry form” or “book-entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds and the principal of and interest on the Bonds may
be transferred only through a book
entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are

March 16, 2016
issued by the City only to a Depository or its nominee as registered owner,
with the Bonds “immobilized” in the
custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than the
City is the record that identifies the
owners of beneficial interests in those
Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book-entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds, in book-entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book-entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers,
banks and trust companies, and clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book-entry
system and, if and as long as a bookentry system is utilized: (i) the Bonds
may be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Bond representing
each maturity and registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository;
(ii) the beneficial owners in bookentry form shall have no right to
receive Bonds in the form of physical
securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in bookentry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry by
the Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Bonds as such shall not
be transferable or exchangeable,
except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a Depository, without further action by the
City.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Bonds for use in a book-entry system,
the Director of Finance may attempt
to
establish
a
securities
depository/book-entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Registrar, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and Registrar shall authenticate and deliver
bond certificates in registered form to
the assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized to the extent necessary or required to enter into any
agreements determined necessary in
connection with the book-entry system for the Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of the
form of any such agreement by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The Bonds
shall first be offered for purchase to

The City Record
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Bonds and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to the
Original Purchaser in the Certificate
of Award which shall specify the
final terms of the Bonds in accordance with law, the provisions of this
Ordinance, the written advice of a
financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Bonds, the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount of
the Bonds plus any accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), the Interest Payment
Dates and the date of the Bonds and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and
certificates, to cause a true transcript
of proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City a
bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form by the Director of
Law, setting forth the terms and conditions on which the City agrees to
sell the Bonds and the Original Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds, which
shall be consistent with this Ordinance, not substantially adverse to
the City, and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in this
Ordinance and as may be provided in
or pursuant to the Certificate of
Award, are in the best interest of the
City and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds with

379

21
other bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bonds, Series 2016” or such other designation as may be set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Such bonds
shall contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Bonds are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds promptly when and as the same falls due,
and also to provide for the discharge
of the Bonds at maturity, there shall
be and is levied on all the taxable
property in the City, in addition to all
other taxes, a direct tax annually during the period the Bonds are outstanding, in an amount sufficient to
provide for the payment of that interest, when and as the same shall fall
due, and also to discharge the principal of the Bonds at maturity, which
tax shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be within the ten-mill
limitation imposed by law, shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general
purposes for each of those years are
certified, extended and collected, and
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the full
amount thereof. The funds derived
from those tax levies shall be placed
in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the Sinking Fund as
required by the General Bond Ordinance, and those funds, together with
the interest collected on them, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same fall
due; provided, however, that, subject
to the provisions of Section  8 of the
General Bond Ordinance, in each year
to the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of
such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available
and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections  133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt charges
for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds are
issued. The proceeds of the Bonds to
be applied to pay costs of any Credit
Support Instruments obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be
paid to the provider or providers of
those Credit Support Instruments.
The proceeds of the Bonds to be used
to pay costs of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited with the Registrar in a

22
separate account under the Registrar
Agreement pending their application
to the payment of such costs. Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance, and
notwithstanding Chapter 179 of the
Codified Ordinances, any accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges and
liens authorized by the General Bond
Ordinance and, in addition to the
taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Bonds are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and
discharged all the outstanding Bonds,
or there shall otherwise be paid to the
holders of the outstanding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or subaccounts, in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or

The City Record
redemption dates, of all debt charges
on the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the date
of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds are to be
redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall
have been duly given or irrevocable
provision satisfactory to the Trustee
shall have been duly made for the giving of such notice. Any moneys held
by the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient
to meet payment of debt charges on
the Bonds, as directed by the Director
of Finance. Any income or interest
earned by, or increment to, the investments held under this Section shall, to
the extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of
such determination as provided in
Section  17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent. In the event of
nonpresentment of any Bond as
described in Section 17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held
pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section  17(a) for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof, notes of the City may be
issued in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $22,750,000 (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the  “Note Certificate of
Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding 4.00% per year, as may be
fixed by the Director of Finance of
the City in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be dated their date of
issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award,
which shall be no later than five
years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, provided that, if the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated
“Bridges and Roadways Improvement
Bond Anticipation Notes”; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book-entry
only system) in denominations of
$5,000 or integral multiples thereof.
Interest shall be payable semiannually on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that if
the Notes mature on or before the end

380

March 16, 2016
of the twelfth month following their
date of issuance, interest on the Notes
shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Notes (the “Note
Registrar”). The Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the
Notes if the Notes are held in a bookentry system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the “Note
Registrar Agreement”) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes on terms that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Note Registrar to maintain and keep
at its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Note shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither
the City nor the Note Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination
upon presentation and surrender at
the principal corporate trust office of
the Note Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. A Note
may be transferred only on the Note
Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer the
Note
Registrar
shall
complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by
the owner equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of
the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the

March 16, 2016
City shall sign and the Note Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Note Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Note Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Notes issued and authenticated upon any exchange or transfer shall be valid obligations of the
City, evidencing the same debt, and
entitled to the same security and benefit under this Ordinance, as the Notes
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes with
other bond anticipation notes of the
City for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for
which the Notes are issued and shall
state that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance.
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which they
are issued and that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance. Each Note
shall be authenticated by the manual
signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance, and, consistent with Section
133.27 of the Ohio Revised Code and
notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City,
either or both of those signatures may
be a facsimile. The Notes shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes and
shall endorse thereon the Director of
Law’s approval of the form thereof by
the Director of Law’s manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite or purchase the
Notes and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the
principal amount set forth in a certificate of award to be executed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”) at not less than par
and accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section 10
hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund and
used for the purpose for which the
Notes are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and

The City Record
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Notes are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit and general property taxing power (as described in
Section 5) of the City are hereby
pledged for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes in
accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance. The par value to be received
from the sale of the Bonds or of any
renewal notes and any excess funds
resulting from the issuance of the
Notes shall, to the extent necessary,
be used to pay the debt charges on the
Notes at maturity and are pledged for
that purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all the
taxable property in the City, in addition to all other taxes but within tax
limitations, a direct tax annually not
less than that which would have been
levied if bonds had been issued therefor without the prior issue of the
Notes. That tax shall be and is
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers, in
the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes
for each year are certified, extended
and collected. That tax shall be
placed before and in preference to all
other items and for the full amount
thereof. The funds derived from the
tax levies required by this Ordinance
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account, and
those funds, together with the interest collected on them, shall be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the
principal and interest of the Notes or
the Bonds in anticipation of which
they are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues
are available from other sources for
the payment of the Notes and Bonds
and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of such direct tax
upon all of the taxable property in the
City may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare or
cause to be prepared on behalf of the
City an Official Statement with
respect to the Notes or the Bonds, as
the case may be, and any necessary
supplements and to authorize the use
and distribution of each Official
Statement and any supplements. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign on behalf of the City and in her
official capacity each Official Statement and any supplements approved
by her. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity such certificates in connection with the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements
as may, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also

381

23
authorized to determine and certify
on behalf of the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by
the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission
Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC Rule”). The
Director of Finance is authorized to
contract for services for the production and distribution of preliminary
and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate,
which shall constitute the continuing
disclosure agreement made by the
City for the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners of the Notes or the
Bonds, as the case may be, in accordance with the SEC Rule. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and
their annual appropriation to meet
costs the City would be required to
incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Bonds and
the Notes authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed
to alter or restrict such full application of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Bonds and the Notes authorized herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a) and
the third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant to
Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are for
convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections of
this Ordinance.
Section 14. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Notes and the Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds
or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141
or 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the “Code”) or (ii)
be treated other than as bonds the
interest on which is excluded from
gross income under Section 103 of the

24
Code, and (b) the interest thereon
will not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section  57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Notes and the
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Notes and the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
having
responsibility
for
City
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds as
the City is permitted or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections available under Section  148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts or
payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing
and signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf of
the City, as may be appropriate to
assure the exclusion of interest from
gross income and the intended tax
status of the Notes and the Bonds, and
(c) to give one or more appropriate
certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting forth
the reasonable expectations of the
City regarding the amount and use of
all the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment

The City Record
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Bonds
or any Notes (a “Credit Support
The
Director
of
Instrument”).
Finance may request a rating on the
Bonds or Notes from one or more
nationally recognized rating organizations, and do any and all things and
take any and all actions required to
secure a Credit Support Instrument
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds or Notes. The Director of
Finance may enter into one or more
agreements for Credit Support Instruments containing terms not materially inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Bonds or Notes to the extent available
and otherwise from any other funds
lawfully available that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and that all
deliberations of this Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
these formal actions were held, in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Bonds and the Notes in order to
make them legal, valid and binding
obligations of the City have happened, been done and been performed
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds
or the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and any

382

March 16, 2016
Note Certificate of Award to the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 20. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent, it
is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 337-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Public Safety and
Justice
Services,
Public
Safety
Grants, for the FY14 State Homeland
Security Grant Program - Aviation;
and authorizing the director to
acquire a video downlink system and
any necessary user licenses.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

March 16, 2016
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the amount of
$130,875.30, from the Cuyahoga County Public Safety and Justice Services,
Public Safety Grants for the FY14
State Homeland Security Grant Program - Aviation; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes set forth in the award
letter for the grant contained in the
file described below.
Section 2. That the award letter for
the grant, File No. 337-16-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the acquisition of a video downlink system and
any necessary user licenses, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis,
for the Department of Public Safety.
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from the fund or funds to which
are credited the grant accepted under
this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 338-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Public Safety and
Justice
Services,
Public
Safety
Grants, for the FY15 State Homeland
Security Grant Program - LE; and
authorizing one or more requirement
contracts for the purchase of computer equipment and smartphone applications related to the records management system upgrade.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the amount of
$50,000, from the Cuyahoga County
Public Safety and Justice Services,
Public Safety Grants for the FY15

The City Record
State Homeland Security Grant Program - LE; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the #7 Revised
Final letter from the County for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the #7 Revised
Final letter from the County for the
grant, File No. 338-16-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements during the
grant term of the necessary items of
handheld computers and smartphone
applications, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division
of Police, Department of Public Safety. Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Safety, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 350-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution supporting House Bill 475, pending in the
Ohio House of Representatives, which
expands the Motion Picture Tax Credit.

383

25
Whereas, House Bill 475, which
expands the Motion Picture Tax Credit, was introduced in the Ohio House
of Representatives on February 23,
2106, and sponsored by Representative Kirk Schuring; and
Whereas, since July 2011, the $20
million tax credit, which reimburses
motion picture production companies
25 percent of what they spend in Ohio
and 35 percent of wages paid to residents, has paid for the equivalent of
1,729 full-time jobs and more than $400
million in total economic impact,
according to a recent economic study
conducted by the Maxine Goodman
Levin College of Urban Affairs at
Cleveland State University; and
Whereas, this study, commissioned
by the Greater Cleveland Film Commission, confirms that Ohio has benefited economically from a return on
investment of $2.01 for every $1 spent
by the state on the incentive; and
Whereas, despite these economic
benefits, Ohio has lost over a billion
dollars this year to other states such
Georgia,
New
Mexico,
and
as
Louisiana that offer more competitive
tax incentives to draw in motion picture productions; and
Whereas, House Bill 475 expands
Ohio’s Motion Picture Tax Credit by
authorizing motion picture companies to transfer the authority to claim
refundable tax credits to other persons, adjusting how the credit is calculated, increasing the total amount
of credits that may be awarded per
year, removing the limit on the maximum credit amount that may be
awarded to a motion picture, and creating a job training program for resident film crew members; and
Whereas, House Bill 475 increases
the annual cap on the total amount of
tax credits allowed to 75 million dollars plus any amount of credit authority carried forward from previous fiscal years; and
Whereas, this Council recognizes
the economic benefits from the
Motion Picture Tax Credit, and supports House Bill 475 in order to
expand these benefits in Cleveland
and throughout Ohio; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports House Bill 475, pending in the
Ohio House of Representatives, which
expands the Motion Picture Tax Credit.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 344-16.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the National Kidney Foundation Annual Walk on June 5, 2016,
managed by the National Kidney
Foundation.

26
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the National Kidney Foundation
Annual Walk, on June 5, 2016, start:
Great Lakes Science Center at 601
Erieside Avenue; west on Erieside
Avenue; south on West 3rd Street;
east on Al Lerner Way; east on
Erieside Avenue; east on North Marginal Road; around Burke Airport
Loop; west on North Marginal Road;
north on East 9th Street; turn around
at Pier; south on East 9th Street; west
on Erieside Avenue—finish line; provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 345-16.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Broadway School of
Music & the Arts for the Community
Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program through the use of Wards 5 and
12 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into
agreement
with
Broadway
School of Music & the Arts for the
Community Arts Instruction and
Enrichment Program for the public
purpose of providing art and music
instruction to youth residing in the
city of Cleveland through the use of
Wards 5 and 12 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $31,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he

The City Record
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 346-16.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Aging to enter into an agreement
with Court Community Service for the
Senior Lawn Care Program through
the use of Ward 1 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Aging be authorized to
enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior
Lawn Care Program for the public
purpose of assisting senior citizens
residing in the city of Cleveland with
grass cutting and lawn maintenance
care through the use of Ward 1 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $29,500 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 339-16.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the TREX transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A, and D6 Liquor Permit to 6625 Denison Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the TREX transfer
of ownership of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit from Taqueria Mexico Tacox, Inc, Zachary B. Burkons
Rcvr, DBA Mi Pueblo, 12207 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,

384

March 16, 2016
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 87992430010 to 6625 Denison,
LLC, 6625 Denison Avenue, Cleveland,
44102,
Permanent
Number
Ohio
8200523; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the TREX
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Taqueria Mexico Tacox, Inc, Zachary
B. Burkons Rcvr, DBA Mi Pueblo,
12207 Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 87992430010 to 6625
Denison, LLC, 6625 Denison Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 8200523; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.

March 16, 2016
Res. No. 340-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
location of a D1, D2 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 3145 East 79th Street, and
repealing Resolution No 1244-15,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of location of a D1, D2
and D6 Liquor Permit to Jacqueline
Fort, DBA Jacqueline Beverages, 3145
East 79th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent No. 2827101 by Resolution No. 1244-15 adopted by the
Council on October 5, 2015; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of location of D1, D2 and D6
Liquor Permit to Jacqueline Fort,
DBA Jacqueline Beverages, 3145 East
79th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent No. 2827101, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1244-15, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 341-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 3850 East
65th Street, 1st floor east unit.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit
from Reichenberger Group, LLC, DBA
Mike’s Food Mart, 3850 East 65th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit
Number 7278587 to Shaker Jamil, Inc.,
DBA Mike’s Food Mart, 3850 East 65th
Street, 1st floor east unit, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105 Permit Number 8026805;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to

The City Record
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from Reichenberger Group, LLC,
DBA Mike’s Food Mart, 3850 East 65th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit
Number 7278587 to Shaker Jamil, Inc.,
DBA Mike’s Food Mart, 3850 East 65th
Street, 1st floor east unit, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105 Permit Number 8026805;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 343-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 2184 West
85th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
from Loolo, LLC, 2184 West 85th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permit
Number 5284851 to Najada Town
Foods, Inc., 2184 West 85th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102 Permit Number
6286885; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and

385

27
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit from Loolo, LLC, 2184 West
85th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permit Number 5284851 to Najada
Town Foods, Inc., 2184 West 85th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102 Permit
Number 6286885; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 351-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at
3924 East 71st Street and repealing
Resolution No. 1081-12, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to J & FS, Inc., DBA Mr.
Bill’s, 3924 East 71st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number

28
4174451 by Resolution No. 1081-12,
adopted by the Council on August 8,
2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to J & FS, Inc., DBA Mr.
Bill’s, 3924 East 71st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
4174451, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 108112, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 352-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of stock of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 4611 West 130th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a transfer of stock
of a C1 Liquor Permit at KF Oil & Gas
Corporation,
DBA
West
130th
Marathon, 4611 West 130th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent
Number 4618581; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a transfer of
stock of a C1 Liquor Permit at KF Oil
& Gas Corporation, DBA West 130th
Marathon, 4611 West 130th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent
Number 4618581, and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 353-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 12307 St.
Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Food Xpress and Gas, Inc.,
DBA Gas USA, 12307 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permit Number
2805847; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

386

March 16, 2016
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Food Xpress and
Gas, Inc., DBA Gas USA, 12307 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permit Number 2805847; and requests
the Superintendent of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 355-16.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 2309 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from
Bria, Inc., 2309 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permit Number
095124 to Kizella, LLC, DBA Magic
City Lounge, 2309 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114 Permit Number
4687854; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and

March 16, 2016
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from
Bria, Inc., 2309 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permit Number
095124 to Kizella, LLC, DBA Magic
City Lounge, 2309 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114 Permit Number
4687854; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
MOTION
AMENDMENT FROM THE FLOOR
Ord. No. 122-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the procurement by one or more
requirement contracts of the rental
of large capacity trucks with operators, for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Works, for a
period of one year with two one
year options to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Passage recommended by
Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
On the motion of Council Member
Pruitt, that Ordinance No. 122-15 be
amended to change the initial term
of the agreement from one year to
eighteen months; and that in the
title, line 5 and in Section 1, line 3,

The City Record
that “one year” is deleted and
replaced with “eighteen months”.
Seconded by Council Member Kazy.
Passed; Yeas 16. Nays 0.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1514-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to issue a permit to Buckeye Partners, L.P. to encroach into the public right-of-way beneath Independence Road and Rockefeller Avenue
by installing, using, and maintaining 12.75-inch petroleum pipelines.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1516-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute deeds of easement and various temporary deeds of easement
granting to the Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District certain easement rights in property located in
Otter Park and declaring the easement rights not needed for the City’s
public use to implement NEORSD’s
Project Clean Lake, Green Ambassador – Urban Agriculture Green
Infrastructure Project allowing them
to construct and maintain an outdoor
classroom in Otter Park; accepting
the gift of the improvements; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
a property adoption agreement for the
maintenance.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 22-16.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Brancatelli
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance designating Clarkwood Road between Central
Avenue and Cedar Avenue with a secondary and honorary designation of
“Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way.”
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning
and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

387

29
Ord. No. 115-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
Kelley
(by
departmental
and
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants
from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development for
the CDBG Year 42 under the Title I of
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2016 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act
Program, Emergency Solutions Grant
Program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 117-16.
By Council Members Polensek, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase property
from Octavia Land Company for the
expansion of the Collinwood Athletic
Complex for the Department of Public
Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 148-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 51914, passed May 12, 2014, relating to
appropriating Community Development Block Grant and HOME funds
for administrative expenses of the
Department of Community Development.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 149-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment to
the Master Development Agreement
with Chagrin Highlands, Ltd., City
Contract No. 40622, to change certain
terms of the agreement.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 1. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 1.

30
Those voting yea: Council Members Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, K. Johnson, Kazy, Kelley, Keane, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
J. Johnson.
Absent: Council Member Cleveland.
Ord. No. 153-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
renew its Lease By Way of Concession with the Board of Trustees of the
Cleveland Public Library for the
Eastman Reading Garden in Eastman Park to March 1, 2048.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 155-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance designating certain property owned by the
City of Cleveland in Chagrin Highlands in the Village of Highland Hills
as a municipal utility district and
authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into a Municipal Utility District Agreement with
the Village of Highland Hills for
improvement of said property and
sharing of income tax proceeds resulting from the development of the property.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 157-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Agreement
with Cuyahoga County, the Cuyahoga
County Board of Health, the Northeast Ohio First Suburbs Consortium,
and other entities agreed upon
between the parties, to operate the
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 189-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more requirement

The City Record
contracts without competitive bidding with ADB Airfield Solutions,
LLC for electrical parts and equipment, including labor and materials
and installation if necessary, to maintain, repair and modify electrical systems at airport properties, for the
Department of Port Control, for a period not to exceed two years with two
one-year options to renew, the first of
which shall require additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 190-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. RCD 2014-55 with
Arconas Corporation to provide for
the purchase of labor and materials
needed to install power outlets and
USB ports, including maintenance,
repair and inspection, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees in Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 194-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of recycled or
virgin asphalt concrete, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public
Works.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal
Properties and Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 195-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of replacing the bridge
and renovating the irrigation system
at Highland Park Golf Course, including making site improvements; and
authorizing the Director of Public
Works or Capital Projects, as appropriate, to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Capital Projects, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and
Properties, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

388

March 16, 2016
Ord. No. 198-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 24675 with Corporate Wings Hopkins LLC, dba Atlantic Aviation to
extend the term of their lease for an
additional ten years, to expand their
leased premises, and to issue rent
credits for improvements made to the
leased premises, for the Department
of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In the title, line 5, after “ten
years,” and in Section 1, at the end,
between “January 31, 2034” and the
period insert in both places “with one
option to renew for an additional five
years and shall require additional
legislative authority”.
2. In Section 1, second paragraph,
strike lines 5, 6, and 7 in their
entirety and insert “appraisal. A
copy of the legislative summary has
been placed in File No. 198-16-A”.
3. In Section 2, lines 4 and 5,
strike “shall not exceed $2,642,055,
and”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 250-16.
By Council Members Mitchell, Conwell, Dow, and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Mayor’s Office
of Capital Projects to issue a permit
and authorizing the Director of Public Works to issue a license to University Circle Inc. to encroach into the
public right-of-way and in City parkland at various locations throughout
University Circle by installing, using,
and maintaining approximately 40
Story Poles and or surrounding pads.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, when amended, as follows:
1. Strike Section 1 in its entirety
and insert:
“Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
issue a permit, revocable at the will
of Council, to University Circle Inc.,
10831 Magnolia Drive, Cleveland, OH
44106-1887 (“Permittee”), to encroach
into the public right-of-way throughout University Circle by installing,
using,
and
maintaining
approximately 28 story posts and/or surrounding mounting pads at the following locations:
Post#
Adjacent
Property
Owner/Description
6 Western Reserve Historical Society, 10825 East Boulevard;
8 The Music Settlement, 11125
Magnolia Drive;
9 University Circle Inc., 10831
Magnolia Drive;

March 16, 2016
10 City of Cleveland Right-of-Way
(“ROW”). In tree lawn at corner of
Magnolia Drive and East 108th
Street. 36" from corner of sidewalk
to corner of post, 27" from edge of
each sidewalk to sides of the post;
University
Circle
United
16
Methodist Church. In front of 191519 East 107thStreet;
17 Midblock in front of Cleveland
Sight Center property, in grass area
near sidewalk along North side of
Chester Avenue;
18 Ronald McDonald House of
Cleveland, Inc. In brick-paved plaza
at NW corner of Euclid Avenue and
East 105th Street. 1' off of main
sidewalk at SE corner of brick
plaza, centered within the third sidewalk tile from the streetlight pole;
19 Cleveland Clinic Foundation. In
grass area near the SW corner of
Euclid
Avenue
and
East
105th
Street. 36" from edge of sidewalk;
post centered on second sidewalk
tile joint to the east of the pedestrian signal pole;
20 W. O. Walker Center Inc.;
21 ROW. In grass island at SW
corner of Stearns Road and Euclid
Avenue intersection. 2' from sidewalk to front corner of post with
front corner aligned with joint that
runs from the right side of ADA
curb ramp;
22 ROW. In grass area near NW
corner
of
Euclid
Avenue
and
Chester Avenue intersection. 3' from
sidewalk at bend in ROW;
23 ROW. In grass near NE corner
of
Euclid
Avenue
and
Chester
Avenue in front of Mark Hanna statue. 24" from midpoint of concrete
pathway tile; 108" from joint of concrete and asphalt;
24 ROW. At southern corner of
eastern grass triangle within the
plaza at the southern end of Wade
Lagoon staircase; at the intersection
of Euclid Avenue and Martin Luther
King, Jr. Boulevard, 21" from each
sidewalk edge; aligned with second
joint of sidewalk and first joint of
pathway; 46" from corner of triangle where sidewalk meets plaza;
26 Musical Arts Association (Severance Hall);
27 University Circle Inc. In front
of 2055 Adelbert Road;
28
University
Hospitals
along
Euclid Avenue near University Hospital Drive;
29 ROW. In sidewalk on NW side
of Euclid Avenue, in front of 11205
Euclid Avenue near University Hospital Drive crosswalk. 11'7" from
traffic light pole to corner of post;
6'2" from curb;
30 The Community Builders. Near
corner of Euclid Avenue and Ford
Drive, aligned with planting bed
near Ford Drive. Commodore Building entrance. 3' from building; 3'
from planting bed;
31 ROW. Centered in area of missing sidewalk tile just above the
north side of Ford Drive and west
side of Hessler Road (NW corner),
36" from curb;
32 ROW. In grass area of island
between intersection of East Boulevard, Ford Drive, and Juniper Road.
Centered on sidewalk joint between
third and fourth tiles from Ford
Drive; 24" from sidewalk;
33 University Circle Inc. 1716 East
115th Street. In grass lawn in front
of apartment building. 2 sidewalk

The City Record
tiles from edge of driveway; 24"
from sidewalk, aligned with separation joint;
34 ROW. In sidewalk on NW corner of Euclid Avenue and East 117th
Street near entrance to 11635 Euclid
Avenue 3'10" from back right corner of bollard to left corner of post
and 12'6" from curb to front corner
of post;
East
Cleveland
Township
35
Cemetery Foundation, in front of
1621 East 118th Street;
36 The Free Medical Clinic of
Greater Cleveland, Inc., 12321 Euclid
Avenue;
37 ROW. In sidewalk, SW of
Healthline
station
near
Euclid
Avenue and East 123rd Street. 3'7"
from edge of planting bed; 4'2.5"
from road;
38 Cleveland Institute of Art. In
concrete plaza to the east of HealthLine station near main entrance to
CIA. Centered on fifth concrete joint
from edge brick pavers near bus station; 69.5" from “Change” bench. SE
corner East 115th Street and Euclid
Avenue;
39 ROW. In sidewalk in front of
MOCA, centered on seventh joint
from tree pit (153") and 6th joint
from street; 87" from corner of CPP
shaft. 11400 Euclid Avenue; and
40 ROW. SE corner East 115th
Street and Mayfield Road, in front
of the Cozad-Bates House.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.”.
2. In Section 2, line 3, strike “permitted by” and insert “permitted
under”.
3. Strike Section 3 in its entirety
and insert:
“Section 3. That, notwithstanding
Section 183.16 and any other provision of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Public Works is authorized to issue
a license, which shall renew from
year-to-year subject to termination
at any time by the Director, to University Circle Inc., 10831 Magnolia
Drive,
Cleveland,
OH
44106-1887
(“Licensee”), to enter upon City
parkland throughout the University
Circle area to install, use, and maintain approximately 12 story posts
and/or surrounding mounting pads,
at the following locations:
Post# Location
1 Wade Park Oval, as shown in
Council File No. 250-16-A.
2 Wade Park Oval, as shown in
the above-mentioned file.
3 Wade Park Oval, as shown in
the above-mentioned file.
4 Wade Park Oval, as shown in
the above-mentioned file.
5 Wade Park Oval, as shown in
the above-mentioned file.
7 Wade Park. 11021 East Boulevard. In sidewalk along East Boulevard. Located within a sidewalk
plaza in front of main entrance to
Cleveland Institute of Music.
11 Wade Park. NE corner East
105th Street and Martin Luther
King, Jr. Boulevard. Near new plaza
entrance to VA Hospital in grass
area between plaza and East Boulevard sidewalk. 30" off center of sidewalk curve edge; 34" from edge of
the sidewalk to side of the post
from East 105th Street side; 30" from

389

31
edge of the sidewalk from the East
Boulevard side.
12 Rockefeller Park. Grass area
between tennis court parking lot
and sidewalk. 24" from bike rack
pavement; 24" from pathway; 27"
from sidewalk joint.
13 Rockefeller Park. Grass area
along pathway toward Rockefeller
Lagoon, near gazebo. 24" from large
crack in concrete pathway.
14 Wade Park. In grass area
across East 105th Street, near Park
Lane. 7'6" from stone wall and 2'
from sidewalk; centered on adjacent
sidewalk tile.
15 Wade Park. In the park across
street from 1890 East 107th Street,
near crosswalk, 3' from corner of
sidewalk and pathway to the post
corner.
25 Wade Lagoon/Fine Arts Garden. In grass area behind sidewalk
ROW at corner of East Boulevard
and Euclid Avenue. 139.5" from manhole edge to corner of pole; 24" from
sidewalk aligned to centerline of
third sidewalk tile joint from the
larger separation joint.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.”.
4. In Section 4, line 3, after “The
permit” insert “and the license”; and
in line 6, after “encroachments(s)”
insert “and activities”.
5. In Section 5, line 2, after
“encroachment” insert “and license”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 257-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply for
and accept a grant from the Cuyahoga County Department of Public
Safety and Justice Services for the FY
2015 Cleveland Domestic Violence
Program; and to enter into one or
more contracts with Cuyahoga County and other entities to implement the
program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 258-16.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
the remaining portion of Payne Court
N.E.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The City Record

32
Ord. No. 262-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 173.20 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1759-A-76,
passed January 31, 1977, relating to
the Boxing and Wrestling Commission.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 1512-15.
By Council Members Dow, K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of the

first un-named alley North of Superior
Avenue N.E., East of East 21st Street.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development
Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1513-15.
By Council Members Conwell, K.
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Reserve Court N.E.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development
Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

March 16, 2016
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Pruitt, the absence of Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland is hereby
authorized. Seconded by Council
Member Kazy.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:39 p.m. to meet on Monday, March
21, 2016, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on its final passage on March 21, 2016:
Ord. No. 125-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of all
municipal departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2016 until December 31, 2016.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the
fiscal year ending December 31, 2016, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Five Hundred Sixty Six Million, Eight Hundred Sixteen Thousand, Six Hundred Twenty Eight Dollars ($566,816,628) from the General Fund;
The sum of Seventy Nine Million, One Hundred Twenty Seven Thousand, Four Hundred Seventy Nine Dollars
($79,127,479) from the Special Revenue Funds;
The sum of One Hundred Twenty Two Million, Eight Hundred Sixty Two Thousand, Three Hundred Sixty Six
Dollars ($122,862,366) from the Internal Service Funds;
The sum of Seven Hundred Forty Four Million, Seven Hundred Seventy One Thousand, One Hundred Fifty Two
Dollars ($744,771,152) from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Eleven Million, Six Hundred Forty Thousand, Eight Hundred Twenty Nine Dollars ($11,640,829)
from the Trust and Agency Funds;
The sum of Sixty Five Million, Thirty Five Thousand, Six Hundred Eighty One Dollars ($65,035,681) from the
Debt Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor’s Estimate on file with Council and identified in the aggregate amount for each
department as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
General Government
Department of Aging
Department of Human Resources
Department of Law
Department of Finance
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Public Works
Department of Community Development
Department of Building and Housing
Department of Economic Development
Nondepartmental
Total Executive Branch
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$

7,326,653
39,365,935

14,942,983
1,173,863
2,440,965
11,821,850
16,860,237
7,479,561
330,753,065
67,805,937
303,015
9,846,265
1,717,892
54,978,407
———————
520,124,040
———————
———————
566,816,628
———————
———————

390

The City Record

March 16, 2016

33

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds

79,127,479
122,862,366
744,771,152
11,640,829
65,035,681
———————
$1,590,254,135
———————
———————

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2016

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$
$

7,326,653

5,180,810
2,145,843
———————
$
7,326,653
———————
———————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

20,952,710
2,731,803

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

10,108,679
1,458,662

Municipal Court - Housing Division
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,861,863
252,218

$

23,684,513

$

11,567,341

$

4,114,081

———————
$
39,365,935
———————
———————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,771,030
107,457

Office of Capital Projects
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

4,864,932
516,027

Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

199,233
11,988

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

129,324
10,290

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

215,263
20,647

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

654,955
798,346

$

1,246,740
116,393

$

1,567,274
97,269

Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

391

$

2,878,487

$

5,380,959

$

211,221

$

139,614

$

235,910

$

1,453,301

$

1,363,133

$

1,664,543

$
$ 49,840

49,840

34

The City Record
Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Office of Budget & Management-Budget
Administration
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

March 16, 2016
$

653,931
19,997

$

804,493
87,554

$

673,928

$

892,047

———————
$
14,942,983
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$
$

1,173,863

923,273
250,590
———————
$
1,173,863
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES
Department of Human Resources
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

2,440,965

1,403,343
1,037,622
———————
$
2,440,965
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Department of Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$
$

11,821,850

6,928,465
4,893,385
———————
$
11,821,850
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

863,132
391,694

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,319,790
742,604

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,243,267
1,575,110

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

663,598
117,094

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

675,893
42,266

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

660,690
633,636

$

1,361,383
20,935

$

2,851,141
2,698,004

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,254,826

$

2,062,394

$

3,818,377

$

780,692

$

718,159

$

1,294,326

$

1,382,318

$

5,549,145

———————
$
16,860,237
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

392

March 16, 2016

The City Record

35

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

928,343
390,464

Division of Health
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

2,064,310
2,328,191

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,083,415
268,565

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

124,573
291,700

$

1,318,807

$

4,392,501

$

1,351,980

$

416,273

———————
$
7,479,561
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.
Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

$

5,178,921

$

190,636,623

$

86,839,122

$

24,852,593

$

1,522,099

$

14,319,406

$

878,008

$

91,368

$

755,210

$

148,760

$

5,530,955

3,493,726
1,685,195

$ 180,737,000
9,899,623

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

82,952,783
3,886,339

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

22,225,137
2,627,456

Division of Animal Care and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,148,385
373,714

Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

10,734,410
3,584,996

Office of Professional Standards
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

837,790
40,218

Police Review Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

80,006
11,362

Community Police Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

361,800
393,410

Police Inspector General
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

142,960
5,800

Department of Justice
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,637,550
1,893,405
———————
$ 330,753,065
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Public Works Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,155,148
268,425

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

8,376,666
3,893,088

393

$

3,423,573

$

12,269,754

The City Record

36

March 16, 2016

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,184,880
59,651

Division of Property Management
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

5,510,646
2,253,743

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

8,986,464
5,091,040

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

14,194,775
11,141,680

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,795,792
893,939

$

1,244,531

$

7,764,389

$

14,077,504

$

25,336,455

$

3,689,731

———————
$
67,805,937
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR’S OFFICE
Department of Community Development
Director’s Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$
$

303,015

292,589
10,426

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

———————
$
303,015
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Director’s Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,700,463
466,557

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

6,007,949
192,830

Division of Construction Permitting
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,452,823
25,643

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING

$

2,167,020

$

6,200,779

$

1,478,466

———————
$
9,846,265
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,717,892

1,694,833
23,059

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

———————
$
1,717,892
———————
———————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.
Other Expenses
Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses
Transfers to Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,725,000

$

22,463,073

$

30,790,334

$

1,725,000

$

22,463,073

$

30,790,334

———————
$
54,978,407
———————
———————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$ 520,124,040
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$ 566,816,628
———————
———————

394

The City Record

March 16, 2016

37

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND
Restricted Income Tax Fund
Capital
I.
II.
Debt Service

$

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

$

40,527,692

$

27,040,562

$

1,175,000

$

10,384,225

6,841,261
33,686,431

15,847,945
11,192,617

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,175,000

Division of Public Auditorium & StadiumStadium
Other Expenses
II.

$

10,384,225
———————
$
79,127,479
———————
———————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

DEBT SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
Debt Service
III.

$
$

65,035,681

65,035,681
———————
$
65,035,681
———————
———————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

195,638
539,850

$

1,483,359
6,044,275

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,804,369
10,041,244

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

924,832
1,465,935

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

111,583
464,758

Health Self Insurance
II.
Other Expenses

$

77,788,871

Prescription Self Insurance
II.
Other Expenses

$

17,997,652

Information Systems Services-Telephone
Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

735,488

$

7,527,634

$

15,845,613

$

2,390,767

$

576,341

$

77,788,871

$

17,997,652

———————
$ 122,862,366
———————
———————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Radio
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

4,872,560
1,240,269

$

607,530
2,784,326

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,673,150
2,654,645

Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

85,419,013
230,573,575

395

$

6,112,829

$

3,391,856

$

8,327,795

$

315,992,588

The City Record

38

March 16, 2016

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

11,099,397
15,332,173

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

25,640,346
181,471,475

$

26,431,570

$

207,111,821

———————
$ 567,368,459
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke
Lakefront Airports - Operations
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$
$

160,341,280

30,847,795
129,493,485
———————
$ 160,341,280
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Division of Cemeteries
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

Golf Course Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street
Parking
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

1,722,741

$

18,338

$

11,018,354

$

2,685,224

$

1,576,756

$

40,000

$ 338
18,000

$

1,399,859
9,618,495

Division of Public Auditorium
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,305,823
1,379,401

Division of West Side Market
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

482,635
1,094,121

$

40,000

Division of Property Management East Side Market
II.
Other Expenses

$
1,275,223
447,518

———————
$
17,061,413
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$ 744,771,152
———————
———————

AGENCY FUND
Central Collection Agency
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

11,640,829

7,521,875
4,118,954
———————
$
11,640,829
———————
———————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the Mayor’s
Estimate, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for I. - Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. - Other Expenses and are not severally and individually appropriated in
said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 2015 is hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 2016 or prior years. The Mayor’s
Estimate, as modified by the schedule published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter shall within the sums
appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure budget for the year 2016 and shall be subject to the
control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer from I. - Personnel and Related Expenses, or II. - Other
Expenses within any department or office, or from one department or office to another shall be made except as
provided in Section 41 of the Charter.

396

March 16, 2016

The City Record

39

Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is hereby authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury
for the amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of
the department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed
by law.

BOARD OF CONTROL
March 9, 2016
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, March 9, 2016
at 10:37 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Davis, Acting Director Flask, Director Cox, Acting Directors Withers,
Cosgrove, West, Ebersole, Directors
Fumich, and O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Others: Tiffany White, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
Melissa Burrows, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 93-16.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Kurtz Bros., Inc. for an
estimated quantity of the purchase
of hauling and disposing of water
plant residuals, item 1, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two years
starting upon the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration of the currently
effective contract for the goods or
services, with two one-year options
to renew, received on January 14,
2016 under the authority of Ordinance No. 654-15, passed July 22,
2015, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$282,750.00
(0%,
30
Days),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary for
the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
maybe
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Flask, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
West, Ebersole, Directors Fumich,
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 94-16.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of J. W. Didado Electric,
LLC for an estimated quantity of
Labor and Materials Necessary to
Maintain, Repair and Replace Substation Equipment, including but
not Limited to Switchgear, Circuit
Breakers, Batteries and Fiber Optic

Splicing, all items, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years starting upon execution of a contract or the day following expiration of the currently
effective contract for the goods or
services, with two one-year options
to renew, received on December 9,
2015 under the authority of Ordinance No. 656-15, passed June 8, 2015,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$5,280,564.00,
is
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the required goods
and/or services necessary for the
specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by J. W. Didado Electric, LLC, for the above-mentioned
requirement contract is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

Donato Electric, Inc.
(CSB)

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

$3,209,400.00
60.778%

ABM Electric Power
Solutions (Not Certified)
$ 999,736.00
0%
Zenith Systems
(Not Certified)

$ 129,200.00
0%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Flask, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
West, Ebersole, Directors Fumich,
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 95-16.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Mississippi Lime Company for an estimated quantity of
quicklime, item 1, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years starting upon the later of the execution
of a contract or the day following
expiration of the currently effective
contract for the goods or services,
received on January 14, 2016 under
the authority of Section 129.24 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$271,480.00 (0%, 0 Days), is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best

397

bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services necessary for the
specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Flask, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
West, Ebersole, Directors Fumich,
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 96-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1208-15, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
October
26,
2015,
the
firm
of
Chemtron
Corporation
(“Consultant”), is selected from a list of
qualified persons or firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control
as the firm of consultants available
to be employed by contract to supplement
the
regularly
employed
staff of the several departments of
the City to provide professional services necessary to provide waste
management and waste disposal services, for Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Burke Lakefront
Airport and the Division of Harbors,
Department of Port Control for a
period of one year, with three oneyear options to renew.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Chemtron Corporation for the
above-mentioned
services,
based
upon its proposal dated January 1,
2016, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide that the compensation to
Chemtron Corporation for the services authorized shall not exceed
$55,000.00 per year and shall contain
such other provisions as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following sub-contractors by Chemtron Corporation is
approved:
Sub-contractor

Percentage
Amount

CWM Environmental 5.00%CSB/MBE
$ 2,750.00
A & D Contracting

Hydrochem-Cleveland,
LLC

5.00%CSB/FBE
$ 2,750.00

non-certified
$11,000.00

The City Record

40
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Flask, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
West, Ebersole, Directors Fumich,
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 97-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 268-15, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
April 13, 2015, the firm of DLZ Ohio,
Inc. (“Consultant”), is selected upon
the nomination of the Director of
Port Control from a list of qualified
persons or firms determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Port Control as the firm
of
consultants
available
to
be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to
provide professional services necessary to survey real property, rights
of way and/or easements and other,
interests in real property, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control, for a period of one
year, with three one-year options to
renew.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with DLZ Ohio, Inc. for the abovementioned services, based upon its
proposal dated February 23, 2016,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
that the compensation to DLZ Ohio,
Inc. for the services authorized shall
not exceed $35,000.00, and shall contain such other provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subconsultant
by DLZ Ohio, Inc. is approved:
Subconsultant

Percentage
Amount

American Family Title
Agency, Inc.
0%Non-Certified
$1,750.00
Mount Morris Title
Agency, LLC

5%CSB/FBE
$1,750.00

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Flask, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
West, Ebersole, Directors Fumich,
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 98-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 268-15, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
April 13, 2015, the firm of KS Associates, Inc. (“Consultant”), is selected upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of
qualified persons or firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control

March 16, 2016

as the firm of consultants available
to be employed by contract to supplement
the
regularly
employed
staff of the several departments of
the City to provide professional services necessary to survey real property, rights of way and/or easements and other interests in real
property, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control, for
a period of one year, with three oneyear options to renew.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with KS Associates, Inc. for the
services,
based
above-mentioned
upon its proposal dated January 18,
2016, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide that the compensation to KS
Associates, Inc. for the services
shall
not
exceed
authorized
$70,000.00, and shall contain such
other provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subconsultant
by KS Associates, Inc. is approved:
Percentage
Amount

Subconsultant

Stephen Hovancsek &
Associates Inc.

10%CSB
$7,000.00

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Flask, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
West, Ebersole, Directors Fumich,
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 99-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 268-15, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
April 13, 2015, the firm of Michael
Benza & Associates, Inc. (“Consultant”), is selected upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control
from a list of qualified persons or
firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control as the firm of consultants available to be employed by
contract to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City to provide
professional services necessary to
survey real property, rights of way
and/or easements and other interests in real property, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control, for a period of one year,
with
three
one-year
options
to
renew.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Michael Benza & Associates,
Inc. for the above-mentioned services, based upon its proposal dated
January 13, 2016, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide that the compensation to Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. for the services authorized
shall not exceed $35,000.00, and shall
contain such other provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.

398

Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subconsultant
by Michael Benza & Associates, Inc.
is approved:
Subconsultant

Euthenics, Inc.

Percentage
Amount
10%CSB
$3,500.00

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Flask, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
West, Ebersole, Directors Fumich,
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 100-16.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Ordinance No. 990-15,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland October 12, 2015, Tenable
Protective Services, Inc. is selected
upon nomination of the Director of
Public Works from a list of companies determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Works as the company to
provide armed security services at
the West Side Market parking lots,
for the West Side Market, Department of Public Works, for the period one year with two (2) one-year
options to renew.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Tenable Protective Services,
Inc., based on its June 24, 2015 proposal, to supply armed, uniformed,
commissioned officers at the parking lots for the period of one year
with two (2) one-year options to
renew, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law and
shall include such additional provisions as the Director considers necessary to benefit and protect the
public interest. The fees for services
to be performed under the contract,
as stated in Tenable’s proposal,
shall be at the rate of $35.34 per
hour, not to exceed $88,210.00.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor is approved:
NAME
DOLLAR AMOUNT

CERT STATUS
PERCENTAGE

Safe Choice, LLC
$40,835.00

CSB/MBE/FBE
46.293%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Flask, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
West, Ebersole, Directors Fumich,
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 101-16.
By Interim Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Nos.
110-26-061 and 110-26-062 located at

March 16, 2016
12109 Phillips Avenue and 12203
Phillips Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to lease Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas, Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District has proposed to the
City to lease and develop the parcels
for construction staging of NEORSD
its Dugway sewer project; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has either approved the proposed lease or has not disapproved
or requested a hold of the proposed
lease within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed lessee of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute a lease for a
term of two (2) years, for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland, with
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District for the lease and development
of Permanent Parcel Nos. 110-26-061
110-26-062
located
at
12109
and
Phillips Avenue and 12203 Phillips
Avenue, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the lease of the
parcels shall be a one-time fee of
$4,250.00, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcel for uses
according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Flask, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
West, Ebersole, Directors Fumich,
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Resolution No. 102-16.
By Interim Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent No.
135-12-063 located at 3687 East Blvd.;
and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to lease Land Reutilization Program parcels; and
Whereas, Union Miles Development Corporation has proposed to
the City to lease and develop the
parcel for landscaped green space;
and

The City Record
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has either approved the proposed lease or has not disapproved
or requested a hold of the proposed
lease within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed lessee of the parcel is neither tax delinquent nor in
violation of the Building and Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute a lease for a
term of five (5) years, for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland, with
Union Miles Development Corporation for the lease and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 135-12-063
located at 3687 East Blvd., according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for lease of the parcel
shall be a one-time fee of $5.00,
which amount is determined to be
not less than the fair market value
of the parcel for uses according to
the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Flask, Director Cox,
Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove,
West, Ebersole, Directors Fumich,
and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, and Interim Director Walker-Minor.
KEITH D. SCHEURMAN,
Acting Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing will be notified of the results of
the examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
There-after, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of
the names of those candidates who
have been successful in all parts of
the examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

399

41
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2016
Filing Beginning 3/18/2016
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.
16

17

WR

EE

Exam
Type

Airport Field
Unit Leader
(Building)

Open

Electrical
Safety
Inspector I

Open

18

EE

Human
Resources
Fiscal
Administrator
Non-Comp

19

EE

Labor
Relations
Assistant

20

WR/TY Senior Data
Conversion
Operator

21

WR

Non-Comp

Open

Street
Maintenance
Unit Leader

Open

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).

The City Record

42
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 16
AIRPORT FIELD UNIT LEADER Building (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $21.32 - $23.32 per Hour.

Tower. Operates computers utilizing
standard and customized software
packages. Oversees Work with HVAC
systems including hot water boiler
operations, air handles, rooftop AC
and HV units as well as work on sanitary pump station. Supervises and
performs work with shop floor equipment such as metal brake, band saw,
metal shear, etc. Works with all hand
and power tools used in the maintenance field. Interprets mechanical
blueprints and plumbing isometric
drawings. Performs other job-related
duties as assigned. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:

March 16, 2016
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 17
ELECTRICAL SAFETY INSPECTOR
I (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $14.83 - $25.86 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 18,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MARCH 24, 2016.

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 18,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MARCH 24, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under direction, supervises maintenance and repair work on airport
equipment, facilities, and buildings.
Assists with assignment of work.
Orders equipment and supplies. Manages work orders for appropriate sections. Supervises maintenance workers who provide labor for maintenance operations for summer and
winter tasks on runways, taxiways,
ramps, and airport-owned facilities.
Monitors and inspects crews, job
sites, and daily work assignments.
Assigns work tasks and completes
Alternative and Online Dispute Resolutions. Communicates with Control

A valid High School Diploma or GED
is required. A valid State of Ohio
“B”
Commercial
Driver’s
Class
License is required. Five years of
commercial maintenance experience
as well as two years of commercial
HVAC mechanical maintenance experience is required. Must have two
years of commercial snow removal
experience. One year of supervisory
experience as well as experience with
work-order
management
system
(WEBTMA) is preferred. Must successfully complete a Transportation
Security Administration (TSA) 10
year fingerprint-based Criminal History Records Check and employment
background check and Security
Threat Assessment. Must be able to
lift and carry 60 pounds. Must be able
to work any shift assignment and
overtime during the snow season.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

400

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
EVALUATYPE:
EXPERIENCE
TION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under the supervision of the Commissioner of the Division of Code
Enforcement and the Bureau Manager - Building, makes inspections of
residential and commercial buildings
and structures for the purposes of
ensuring compliance with laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations relating to the design, installation, maintenance, alteration, repair, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use, and
inspection of electrical components,
equipment and systems used in buildings and structures. Performs related
duties as required that pertain to
enforcement of the Cleveland Housing Code, Cleveland Building Code,
Ohio Building Code, Residential Code
of Ohio, and the National Electric
Code. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly

March 16, 2016
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One of the following is
required: (1) Must be a Journeyman
Electrician OR equivalent for four
years, two as an Electrician Unit
Leader, and two years as a building
department ESI trainee; (2) Must be a
Journeyman Electrician or equivalent for four years and have three
years’ experience as a building
department ESI trainee; (3) Must
have four years’ experience as a
building department ESI trainee; (4)
Must be a Journeyman Electrician or
equivalent for six years; or (5) Must
be an Electrical Engineer registered
in the State of Ohio. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
With exception for Electrical Safety
Inspector I where Interim Certifications are required, State of Ohio Board
of Building Standards (OBBS) certification as an Electrical Safety Inspector certification is required and must
be maintained throughout employment. In addition to the above: ELECTRICAL SAFETY INSPECTOR I –An
OBBS Interim Electrical Safety
Inspector certification is required, a
full certification is preferred.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 18
HUMAN
RESOURCES
FISCAL
ADMINISTRATOR – Dept of HR
(NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.

The City Record
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $22,333.40 to $70,234.84 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MARCH 24,
2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
EVALUATYPE:
EXPERIENCE
TION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under
administrative
direction,
supervises and administers daily
activities and responsibilities of
financial, purchasing, property, payroll,
and
accounting
functions.
Assures fiscal integrity for auditing
and daily operational purposes. Coordinates all activities with appropriate
City departments and divisions. Coordinates the preparation and submission of required reports. Provides
leadership and support to the department’s payroll clerks. Tracks routine
activity status in the payroll system.
Maintains and ensures accuracy and
accessibility of records for audits.
Tracks
employee
information
changes and processes Personnel
Information Documents. Reconciles
employee payroll adjustments/benefits against records for authority and
accuracy. Prepares written correspondence. Administers the purchasing
activities of the HR section. Assists
HR
management
with
process
improvements. Coordinates with the
procurement section to process and
monitor all HR procurements. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and

401

43
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Business, Finance, Accounting, Human
Resources, or Public Administration
or closely related field from an
accredited four year college or university is required. Three years of full
time paid experience as a Payroll or
HR Fiscal Supervisor is required.
(Substitution: Two years of relevant
experience may substitute for each
year of college education lacking.
Must be computer proficient (MS
Office Suite and Internet). HRIS system knowledge and experience is preferred. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required. Must be able to
lift and carry 30 pounds.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 19
LABOR RELATIONS
(NON-COMP)

ASSISTANT

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 to $59,516.40 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MARCH 24,
2016.

The City Record

44
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016.

his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
EVALUATYPE:
EXPERIENCE
TION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, assists
with the administration of City labor
agreements. Assists with the negotiation of contracts and grievance settlements under the direction of the Chief
Negotiator. Advises and trains management/supervisory personnel concerning labor relations issues. Assists
in the development and administration of City labor relations policy.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in governmental labor
relations is required. A basic knowledge of Microsoft Office Suites and
general office equipment is required.
A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License
is required.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 20
SENIOR DATA CONVERSION OPERATOR (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $13.47 - $19.37 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATION WILL BE
AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MARCH 24,
2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST = 100% OF
FINAL GRADE. Candidates will be
notified by mail regarding the time,
date, and place of the test. TYPING
TEST
=
THIS
PORTION
IS
PASS/FAIL.
NOTE: CANDIDATES MUST BE
ABLE TO TYPE 45 WPM (Gross
words per minute minus errors).
FAILURE TO OBTAIN 45 WPM
MEANS THAT THE CANDIDATE
WILL RECEIVE A FINAL GRADE
OF ZERO.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under direct supervision, is responsible for conversion of data to machine
readable form on card, tape, or direct
access. Assists in the training of Data
Conversion Operators and assumes
the duties of the supervisor in his/her
absence. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

402

March 16, 2016
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Three years of full time
paid experience as a computer operator is required. A valid State of Ohio
driver’s License is required. Must be
able to type 45 words per minute.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
upon
the
applicant’s
applicant
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 21
STREET
MAINTENANCE
LEADER (OPEN)

UNIT

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $21.32 - $23.32 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, MARCH 18,
2016 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
MARCH 24, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016.

March 16, 2016
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN TEST Applicants
will be notified of the time, date, and
place of the exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
ALL
INFORMATION
CONAND
TAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

The City Record
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, has charge of a
group of workers engaged in the
repair and maintenance of dirt streets
and roadways. Supervises the grading of streets for paving. Performs
related duties as required. TYPICAL
TASKS: Supervises the grading, cindering, and oiling of dirt streets and
alleys. Supervises the cindering and
salting of icy pavements. Supervises
the installation of gutter boxes.
Supervises the grading of streets
prior to paving. Supervises the cleaning of ditches and the removal of
obstructions. Supervises the removal
of snow from streets. Assists in the
supervision
of
cold-patching
of
streets. Inspects dirt streets and
ditches. Lays out work for truck drivers and road crews. Assists in the
supervising the handling of paving
materials in a supply yard. Keeps
time and simple records. Prepares
reports. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MUST MEET THE MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ENTRANCE TO
THIS EXAMINATION AT THE TIME
OF FILING UNLESS OTHERWISE
STATED. SUCH QUALIFICATIONS
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of full time paid
experience in street maintenance is
required, experience in the Division
of Streets is preferred. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten

March 16, 2016.

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY MARCH 28, 2016
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 16-026: 2900 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 3)
Hingetown Holdings LLC, owners,
propose to establish use as residential in a D2 Local Retail Business
and a Pedestrian Retail Overlay District (PRO). The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
Section
357.08(b)(2)
which
1.
states that the required rear yard is
twenty-eight (28) feet where none
are proposed.
2. Section 357.09(b)(2)(C) which
states that the required interior side
yard is fourteen (14) feet where
none are proposed.
3. Section 355.04 which state that
allowed total area is approximately
11,520 square feet (equal to the lot
size) and 29,175 square feet are proposed. (Filed February 17, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-027: 10818 Bernard
Avenue (Ward 11)
Ramdat Sarran, owner, proposes
to erect 43 feet of 4 foot high fence
and 60 linear feet of 6 foot high
fence, to be placed 30 inches from
owners house and garage in a B1
Two-Family
Residential
District.
The owner appeals for relief from
Section 358.04(a) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances which states
that a fence running parallel to and
adjacent to a building on the same
property shall be located no closer
than 3 feet to the closest wall of
such building. The proposed fence is
30 inches (2
feet from the wall of
house and garage on same property.)
(Filed February 19, 2016)
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 16-029: 16700 Saint Clair
Avenue (Ward 8)
WRRS LLC, owner, appeals under
the authority of Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland and
Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances from a Notice of
Violation issued on January 22, 2016
by the Cleveland Department of
Building and Housing for failure to
comply with Section 327.02 (C) of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances
which states that there shall be no
change or substitution of the use of
any building or premises, nor shall

403

45
any premises be occupied for any
new use until a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued. (Filed February 19, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-030: 1702 West 28th
Street (Ward 3)
Kirt Montlack, owner, proposes to
change use from office and apartment to 31 apartment units in a C2
Local Retail Business District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
following Sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 352.10 which states that
a 6' wide landscape strip is required
along West 28th Street and Fulton
where
parking
lot
abuts
Road
street; none is shown.
2. Section 349.08 which states that
a parking lot adjacent to dwelling
unit or residential district shall be
screened by an opaque wall, uniformly painted fence or year round
4' wide densely planted shrubs.
3. Section 349.15 which states that
two bicycle parking spaces are
required at the rate of one per twenty car parking spaces and none are
proposed.
4.
Section
358.05(A)(2)
which
states that a fence in an actual
front yard shall not exceed 4' in
height and shall be at least 50%
open; proposed fence in actual front
yard along West 28th Street exceeds
4' in height. (Filed February 19,
2016)
Calendar No. 16-031: 2910 Hancock
Avenue (Ward 3)
Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp. owner, and Michael
Horton propose to erect a 22' - 7" x
28' - 9" three story frame single
family residence with an attached
garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1.
Section
349.07(c)(3)
which
states that the maximum required
driveway width is 30' and shall
have an apron radius at curb not
less than 6' or curb cut of not more
than 60' to allow for a vehicle to
enter and leave the parking area.
(Approved Easement Required)
2. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the required minimum lot area
is 4,800 square feet and the appellant is proposing 1,766 square feet.
3.
Section
357.08(2)(b)
which
states that the required rear yard is
34' - 7" where the appellant is
proposing 3'.
4. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that the required width of the
interior side yard is 8' - 7" where
the appellant is proposing 5'.
5.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
states that open porches shall not
project more than 6' where the
appellant is proposing 6' - 5" and
shall not project less than 10' to
property line where the appellant is
proposing 0 feet. (Filed February 24,
2016)
Calendar No. 16-032: 2168 West 29th
Street (Ward 3)
Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp. owner, and Michael
Horton propose to erect a 22' - 7" x
28' - 9" three story frame single
family residence with an attached
garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:

The City Record

46
1.
Section
349.07(c)(3)
which
states that the maximum required
driveway width is 30' and shall
have an apron radius at curb not
less than 6' or curb cut of not more
than 60' to allow for a vehicle to
enter and leave the parking area.
(Approved Easement Required)
2. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the required minimum lot area
is 4,800 square feet and the appellant is proposing 1,766 square feet.
3.
Section
357.08(2)(b)
which
states that the required rear yard is
34' - 7" where the appellant is
proposing 3'.
4. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that the required width of the
interior side yard is 8' - 7" where
the appellant is proposing 5'.
5.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
states that open porches shall not
project more than 6' where the
appellant is proposing 6' - 5" and
shall not project less than 10' to
property line where the appellant is
proposing 0 feet. (Filed February 24,
2016)
POSTPONED FROM
FEBRUARY 1, 2016
Calendar No. 16-001: 4118 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 3)
Ron Leonhardt, owner, proposes to
establish use as a tattoo/boy piercing shop in a D3 Local Retail Business District. The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 343.01(b) which states
that tattoo and body piercing use is
not permitted in a Local Retail Business District, but first permitted in
a General Retail Business District.
Section
347.12(b)(1)
which
2.
states that tattoo and body piercing
use is not permitted within 1,000
feet of a residential district, a day
care center, school, public library,
church, playground or community
center. Proposed use is within 1,000
feet of residential districts to the
north and south, Like Home Childcare Center at 3829 Lorain Avenue,
Orchard Elementary School at 4200
Bailey
Avenue,
Carnegie
West
branch of the Cleveland Public
Library at 1900 Fulton Road, First
Hispanic United Methodist Church
at 1965 West 44th Street, Greenwood
Park at West 40th Street & Bailey
Avenue, and the May Dugan Community
Center
at
4115
Bridge
Avenue.
3.
Section
347.12(b)(2)
which
states that tattoo and body piercing
use is not permitted within 1,000
feet of a similar use: proposed use
is within 1,000 feet of another tattoo
studio, True Art Tattoos at 3829
Lorain Avenue. (Filed January 7,
2016 - No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the Councilman to allow
for a block club meeting to be held.
POSTPONED FROM
FEBRUARY 16, 2016
Calendar No. 16-006: 15202 Waterloo
Road (Ward 8)
Meir Besit Trust, owner, proposes
to strip and establish parking lot for
auto sales lot in a C2 Local Retail
Business District and a Pedestrian
Retail Overlay District. The owner
appeals for relief from the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:

March 16, 2016

1. Section 352.10 which states that
a 4' wide landscape strip is required
where the auto sales lot abuts public streets (Waterloo Road and
Daniel Avenue).
2. Section 358.05 which states that
a fence in the actual front yard and
side street yard shall not exceed 4'
in height and shall be at least 50%
open. In actual rear yard and actual interior side yard fence shall not
exceed 6' in height and may be
open or solid. (Filed January 19,
2016 - No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant to allow for
time for design review to take
place.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
14, 2016 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

Calendar No. 15-249: 1345 West 73rd
Street
John C. Boehm, owner, proposes to
change use from factory to residential drug/alcohol recovery center for
30
maximum
residents
and
5
staff/employees in a B1 Residence
Industry District.
appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-019: 2325 Scranton
Road
Gina Lopez and Scott Heimen,
owners, propose to construct a new
3,929 square foot single family residence in a C2 Local Retail Business
District.
Calendar No. 16-021: 14723 Miles
Avenue
Joseph and Frank Vinciguerra
owners, propose to construct a new
garage addition to a food production
use in a C1 General Retail Business
District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
March 9, 2016
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *

None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

None.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following
PONED:

Calendar No. 16-018: 3498 West 45th
Street
Hytech Properties LLC, owner,
proposes to change use of existing
23' x 38' two story frame single
family residence to two family residence in a B1 Two Family Residential District.

were

Calendar No. 15-236: 12523 Buckeye
Road
Howard Levine, owner, proposes
to construct a vocational school with
4 parking spaces in a C2 Residence
Office District.

The
following
DENIED:

Calendar No. 16-016: 1459 West 114th
Street
Mary Glazier, owner, proposes to
erect a 20' x 17' one story frame
bathroom addition to existing single
family residence in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.

case

was

POST-

Calendar No. 16-002: 16117 St. Clair
Avenue
Argee Industries, Inc. Postponed
to April 11, 2016.
The following case was heard by
the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, March 7, 2016 and the decisions were adopted and approved on
Monday, March 14, 2016:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-012: 3256 West 25th
Street
James Denkins Trustee, owner,
and Detroit Shoreway Development
Corporation, prospective purchaser
propose to change use of a factory
and office building to 36.

404

Docket A-252-15.
RE: Appeal of Cansouth Properties LLC, Owner of the R-2 Residential – Non-transient; Apartments
(Shared Egress) Two Story Masonry Property, located on the premises known as 4820-4836 Lee Road a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated October 16, 2015
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until June 1, 2016 to submit plans to the Building Department to obtain all required permits,
noting that there will be no more
extensions of time from that date;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-269-15.
RE: Appeal of Woodmen of the
World, Owner of the MXD Mixed

The City Record

March 16, 2016
Uses – Multiple Uses In One Building Two & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 5303 Storer Avenue from
a
NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE
&
USE,
UNAUTHORIZED/ILLEGAL
dated December 3, 2015 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until July 1, 2016 to redirect the downspouts and complete
the painting violations, and until
September 1, 2016 to complete abatement of all violations on the property; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-1-16.
RE:
Appeal
of
Susan
Frank,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3736 West 129th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
December 8, 2015 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until July 1, 2016 to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-2-16.
RE: Appeal of Hom Family Limited
Partnership,
Owner
of
the
Three Dwelling Units Three-Family
Residence One & One/half Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 1581 East 30th
Street a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
December 5, 2015 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until July 1, 2016 to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.

Docket A-3-16.
RE: Appeal of 2901 Euclid Avenue,
LLC, Owner of the Property, located
on the premises known as 2901
Euclid Avenue from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated December 8,
2015 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
requested variance, with the provision that the eighth (8th) floor
egress stairs be fully sprinkled, and
that the fire alarm system be evaluated by a professional agency and
fully operational before occupancy
of the eight (8th) floor, with the
understanding that any future renovations to the lower levels of the
building, will require compliance
with the current building codes.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-4-16.
RE: Appeal of Zhong Ming Wang,
Owner of the Three Dwelling Units
Three-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 1615 East 41st
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 8, 2015 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until July 7, 2016 to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-5-16.
RE:
Appeal
of
Frank
Humr,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Wood
Property,
located
on
the
premises known as 4500 Grayton
Road
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated December 3, 2015 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 1, 2016 to clean
up the property, and until August 1,
2016 to complete abatement of all
the violations on the property; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.

405

47
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-6-16.
RE: Appeal of Willie Bedell Jr.,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 12810 St. John
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 16, 2015 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 1, 2016 to clean
up the debris and trash on the property, and until July 1, 2016 to complete abatement of all the violations
on the property; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-7-16.
RE: Appeal of Willie Bedell Jr.,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit SinResidence
One
Story
gle-Family
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 12806 St. John
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLA—
EXTERIOR
MAINTETION
NANCE, dated December 16, 2015 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 1, 2016 to clean
up the debris and trash on the property, and until July 1, 2016 to complete abatement of all the violations
on the property; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-213-15.
Ohio E79th Iceberg, LLC – 2048
East 79th Street:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant until May 1,
2016 to present schematic drawings
and until July 1, 2016 to submit
drawings to obtain a permit should
a permit be required, noting that
there will no more extensions on
either of those dates. The property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.

The City Record

48
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-230-15 — Eric B. Freeman
A-240-15 — Evelyn Manigault
A-254-15 — Karen S. Royce
A-264-15 — Lakeside Reo Ventures
LLC
A-265-15 — Lakeside Reo Ventures
LLC
A-266-15 — Lakeside Reo Ventures
LLC
A-268-15 — John W. Hickey
A-12-16
—
Cleveland
Clinic/
C.W.R.U./H.E.C.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
February 24, 2016
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On Development, Planning
and Sustainability
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Tuesday, March 29, 2016
9:30 a.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217,
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on Tuesday, March 29, 2016, at 9:30 a.m., to
consider the following ordinances
now pending in the Council:

Ord. No. 1511-15.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of parcels north of Clifton
Blvd, south of Lake Avenue between
West 117th Street and West 115th
to
Townhouse
and
local
Street
Retail districts, a ‘2’ height district
and a ‘K’ area district as identified
on the attached map (Map Change
No. 2529).
Ord. No. 254-16.
By Council Member Cimperman.
ordinance
establishing
a
An
mapped setback along the North and
South sides of West 6th Street
between University Road and Marquardt Avenue (Map Change No.
2532).
Anthony Brancatelli, Chair
Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability
March 16, 2016 and March 23, 2016

March 16, 2016
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
File No. 33-16 — Gateway East
Garage Concrete Improvements
(Re-Bid), for the Division of
Architecture and Site Development, Office of Capital Projects,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
533-12, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 4,
2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
IN
THE
SPECIFICATIONS
OF
TWENTY-FIVE
AMOUNT
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
TO
PURCHASE
ACCEPTED
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, MONDAY, MARCH 14 2016 AT 10:00
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
517A,
601
LAKESIDE
ROOM
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
March 9, 2016 and March 16, 2016
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

406

File No. 30-16 — Riot Control Gear,
Batons & Accessories, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 880-14, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, July 16, 2014.
*THERE WILL BE AN OPTIONAL
PRE-BID MEETING, ON FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 AT 11:00
A.M. s601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CITY HALL, ROOM 18, DIVISION
OF
FINANCIAL
REPORTING
CONTROL (FRC) CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
March 9, 2016 and March 16, 2016
FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2016
File No. 37-16 — Contractual Repair
of Water Mains, Fire Hydrants,
Valves, Service Connections and
Appurtenances - Area B, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 607-15, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 1, 2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016 AT
3:30 P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, 2ND
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
March 9, 2016 and March 16, 2016
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016
File No. 34-16 — 2016-A Water Main
Renewal, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1366-15, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, November 30, 2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED

The City Record

March 16, 2016
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR MONEY ORDER (NO
COMPANY CHECKS NO CASH
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDAPRE-BID
MEETING,
TORY
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016 AT
P.M.
1201
LAKESIDE
2:30
AVENUE, 2ND FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 40-16 — Rigging Services,
for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 382-15, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 20, 2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016 AT
2:00 P.M. LOCATED AT THE
TOM L. JOHNSON BUILDING,
1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CONFERENCE ROOM A., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
March 9, 2016 and March 16, 2016
THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
File No. 35-16 — 2016-B Water Main
Renewal, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1366-15, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, November 30, 2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR MONEY ORDER (NO
COMPANY CHECKS NO CASH
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016 AT
2:30
P.M.
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, 2ND FLOOR ATRIUM

CONFERENCE ROOM,
LAND, OHIO 44114.

49
CLEVE-

March 9, 2016 and March 16, 2016
FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016
File No. 36-16 — 2016-C Water Main
Renewal, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1366-15, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, November 30, 2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
DOLLARS
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR MONEY ORDER (NO
COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016 AT
2:30
P.M.
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, 2ND FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44118.
March 9, 2016 and March 16, 2016
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016
File No. 41-16 — Grinding of Pavement, for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 140515, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 7,
2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT
OF
TWENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016 AT

2:00
P.M.
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
ROOM 25, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
March 16, 2016 and March 23, 2016

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, March 14, 2016
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
Authorized Absence: Cleveland, Vice
Chair.
Tuesday, March 15, 2016
9:30 a.m.
Development, Planning and Sustainability (Zoning) Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland,
Vice Chair; Cummins, Dow, Pruitt,
Zone. Authorized Absence: Cimperman.
Development, Planning and Sustainability
Committee:
Present:
Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland, Vice
Chair; Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
Authorized Absence: Cimperman.
1:30 p.m.
Utilities
Committee:
Present:
Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
Wednesday, March 16, 2016
10:00 a.m.
Safety Committee: Present: Conwell, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Kazy,
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek. Authorized Absence: Zone, Chair. Pro tempore: Dow.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Donation for Senior Day 2016 — $ 2,200 — Sisters of Charity Foundation (F 347-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance — Court Community
Service — agreement (Ward 01 CRF) (O 346-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384

Agreements
Chagrin Highlands, Ltd. — Master Development Agreement — Amend City Contract No. 40622 —
Economic Development Department (O 149-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art and music instruction
to city of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the Arts — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 05, 12 CRF) (O 345-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
Economic Development Department — Municipal Utility District Agreement — income tax
sharing with Highland Hills for Chagrin Highlands (O 155-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

407

The City Record

50

March 16, 2016

Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — USEPA Brownfield Assessment grant funding; FY 2015 —
Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga County Board of Health, Northeast Ohio First Suburbs
Consortium — Economic Development Department (O 157-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance — Court Community
Service — Aging Department (Ward 01 CRF) (O 346-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
Works Department — deeds of easement — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for
Otter Park — gift of public improvement (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Denison Avenue, 2407 (Ward 12) — John W. Hickey, owner — appeal adopted on 3/9/16
(Doc. A-268-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 30th Street, 1581 (Ward 7) — Hom Family Limited Partnership, owner — appeal
resolved on 3/9/16 (Doc. A-2-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 41st Street, 1615 (Ward 7) — Zhong Ming Wang, owner — appeal resolved on
3/9/16 (Doc. A-4-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 2492 (Ward 5) — Eric B. Freeman, owner — appeal adopted on 3/9/16
(Doc. A-230-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 65th Street, 3395 (Ward 6) — Lakeside Reo Ventures LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
3/9/16 (Doc. A-266-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th Street, 2048 (Ward 6) — Ohio E79th Iceberg, LLC, owner (Doc. A-213-15) . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 80th Street, 4150 (Ward 12) — Lakeside Reo Ventures LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
3/9/16 (Doc. A-265-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 2901 (Ward 7) — 2901 Euclid Avenue, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
3/9/16 (Doc. A-3-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 9501 (Ward 6) — Cleveland Clinic/C.W.R.U./H.E.C., owner — appeal adopted
on 3/9/16 (Doc. A-12-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grayton Road, 4500 (Ward 17) — Frank Humr, owner — appeal resolved on 3/9/16 (Doc. A-5-16)
Lee Road, 4820-4836 (Ward 1) — Cansouth Properties LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
3/9/16 (Doc. A-252-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Road, 17406 (Ward 9) — Evelyn Manigault, owner — appeal adopted on
3/9/16 (Doc. A-240-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John Avenue, 12806 (Ward 11) — Willie Bedell Jr., owner — appeal resolved on 3/9/16
(Doc. A-7-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John Avenue, 12810 (Ward 11) — Willie Bedell Jr., owner — appeal resolved on 3/9/16
(Doc. A-6-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Storer Avenue, 5303 (Ward 14) — Woodmen of the World, owner — appeal resolved on 3/9/16
(Doc. A-269-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 129th Street, 3736 (Ward 16) — Susan Frank, owner — appeal resolved on 3/9/16
(Doc. A-1-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 43rd Street, 3300 (Ward 14) — Lakeside Reo Ventures LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
3/9/16 (Doc. A-264-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westdale Avenue, 16713 (Ward 17) — Karen S. Royce, owner — appeal adopted on 3/9/16
(Doc. A-254-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406

Board of Control — Burke Lakefront Airport Division
Waste management and waste disposal services — per Ord. 1208-15 to Chemtron Corporation —
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Harbors, Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 96-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Waste management and waste disposal services — per Ord. 1208-15 to Chemtron Corporation —
Divisions of Burke Lakefront Airport, Harbors, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 96-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Substation equipment including Switchgear, Circuit Breakers, Batteries and Fiber Optic
Splicing — per Ord. 656-15 to J. W. Didado Electric, LLC — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 94-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East Boulevard, 3687 (Ward 2) — PPN 135-12-063 — lease — Union Miles
Development Corporation (BOC Res. 102-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 399
Phillips Avenue, 12109/12203 (Ward 9) — PPNs 110-26-061/062 — lease — Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District (BOC Res. 101-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398

Board of Control — Harbors Division
Waste management and waste disposal services — per Ord. 1208-15 to Chemtron Corporation —
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Burke Lakefront
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 96-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397

408

March 16, 2016

The City Record

51

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East Boulevard, 3687 (Ward 2) — PPN 135-12-063 — lease — Union Miles
Development Corporation (BOC Res. 102-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 399
Phillips Avenue, 12109/12203 (Ward 9) — PPNs 110-26-061/062 — lease — Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District (BOC Res. 101-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Surveys of real property, rights of way and/or easements and other interests — per Ord.
268-15 to DLZ Ohio, Inc. (BOC Res. 97-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Surveys of real property, rights of way and/or easements and other interests — per Ord.
268-15 to KS Associates, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 98-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Surveys of real property, rights of way and/or easements and other interests — per Ord.
268-15 to Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. (BOC Res. 99-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waste management and waste disposal services — per Ord. 1208-15 to Chemtron Corporation —
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Burke Lakefront
Airport, Harbors (BOC Res. 96-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Armed Security Services at West Side Market Parking Lots — per Ord. 990-15 to
Tenable Protective Services, Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 100-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Surveys of real property, rights of way and/or easements and other interests — per Ord.
268-15 to DLZ Ohio, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 97-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Surveys of real property, rights of way and/or easements and other interests — per Ord.
268-15 to KS Associates, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 98-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Surveys of real property, rights of way and/or easements and other interests — per Ord.
268-15 to Michael Benza & Associates, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 99-16) . . . . . . .
Waste management and waste disposal services — per Ord. 1208-15 to Chemtron Corporation —
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Burke Lakefront
Airport, Harbors, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 96-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Hauling and disposing of water plant residuals — per Ord. 654-15 to Kurtz Bros, Inc. —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 93-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397
Quicklime — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Mississippi Lime Company — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 95-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397
Substation equipment including Switchgear, Circuit Breakers, Batteries and Fiber Optic
Splicing — per Ord. 656-15 to J. W. Didado Electric, LLC — Division
of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 94-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Armed Security Services at West Side Market Parking Lots — per Ord. 990-15 to
Tenable Protective Services, Inc. (BOC Res. 100-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Hauling and disposing of water plant residuals — per Ord. 654-15 to Kurtz Bros, Inc. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 93-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397
Quicklime — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Mississippi Lime Company — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 95-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397
Substation equipment including Switchgear, Circuit Breakers, Batteries and Fiber Optic
Splicing — per Ord. 656-15 to J. W. Didado Electric, LLC — Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 94-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397

Board of Control — Water Division
Hauling and disposing of water plant residuals — per Ord. 654-15 to Kurtz Bros, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 93-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397
Quicklime — per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Mississippi Lime Company — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 95-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397

Board of Control — West Side Market
Armed Security Services at West Side Market Parking Lots — per Ord. 990-15 to
Tenable Protective Services, Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 100-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Buckeye Road, 12523 (Ward 6) — Howard Levine, owner — appeal heard on 3/14/16 (Cal. 15-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
Miles Avenue, 14723 (Ward 1) — Joseph and Frank Vinciguerra, owners — appeal granted and
adopted on 3/14/16 (Cal. 16-21) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404

409

The City Record

52

Scranton Road, 2325 (Ward 3) — Gina Lopez and Scott Heimen, owners — appeal granted and
adopted on 3/14/16 (Cal. 16-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 16117 (Ward 8) — Argee Industries, Inc., owner — appeal postponed to
4/11/16 on 3/14/16 (Cal. 16-2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 114th Street, 1459 (Ward 15) — Mary Glazier, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
3/14/16 (Cal. 16-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 3256 (Ward 14) — James Denkins Trustee, owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 3/14/16 (Cal. 16-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 45th Street, 3498 (Ward 14) — Hytech Properties LLC, owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 3/14/16 (Cal. 16-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd Street, 1345 (Ward 15) — John C. Boehm, owner — appeal heard on 3/14/16
(Cal. 15-249) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

March 16, 2016
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Bernard Avenue, 10818 (Ward 11) — Ramdat Sarran, owner — appeal to be heard on 3/28/16
(Cal. 16-27) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 2900 (Ward 3) — Hingetown Holdings, LLC, owners — appeal to be heard on
3/28/16 (Cal. 16-26). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hancock Avenue, 2910 (Ward 3) — Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp., owner, and
Michael Horton — appeal to be heard on 3/28/16 (Cal. 16-31) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saint Clair Avenue, 16700 (Ward 8) — WRRS LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on
3/28/16 (Cal. 16-29). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 28th Street, 1702 (Ward 3) — Kirt Montlack, owner — appeal to be heard on 3/28/16
(Cal. 16-30) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 29th Street, 2168 (Ward 3) — Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp., owner, and
Michael Horton — appeal to be heard on 3/28/16 (Cal. 16-32) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403

Bonds
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds — $ 22,750,000 — Finance Department (O 336-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 376
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $625,000 — Finance Department
(O 334-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 363
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $ 4,750,000 — Finance Department (O 335-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369

Capital Projects
Clarkwood Rd. (between Central Ave. and Cedar Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 22-16) . . . . . . . .
Highland Park Golf Course — replacing the bridge and renovating the irrigation system —
public improvement contracts — Works Department (O 195-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — petroleum pipelines —
Buckeye Partners, L.P. (Ward 03) (O 1514-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Kidney Foundation, Annual Walk — June 5th — National Kidney Foundation
(Ward 03) (O 344-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Court N.E., vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 258-16) . . . . . . . . .
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 09)
(R 1513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and
or surrounding pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Works Department
(Ward 06) (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (R 1512-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

City of Cleveland Bids
2016-A Water Main Renewal — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord.
1366-15 — bid due April 6, 2016 (advertised 3/9/2016 and 3/16/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2016-B Water Main Renewal — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord.
1366-15 — bid due April 7, 2016 (advertised 3/9/2016 and 3/16/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2016-C Water Main Renewal — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord.
1366-15 — bid due April 8, 2016 (advertised 3/9/2016 and 3/16/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gateway East Garage Concrete Improvements (Re-bid) — Office of Capital Projects —
Division of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 533-12 — bid due March 24,
2016 (advertised 3/9/2016 and 3/16/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grinding of Pavement — Department of Public Works — Division of Streets — per Ord.
1405-15 — bid due April 6, 2016 (advertised 3/16/2016 and 3/23/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rigging Services — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power —
per Ord. 382-15 — bid due April 6, 2016 (advertised 3/9/2016 and 3/16/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Riot Control Gear, Batons & Accessories — Department of Public Safety — Division of
Police — per Ord. 880-14 — bid due March 30, 2016 (advertised 3/9/2016 and 3/16/2016) . . . .
Water Mains, Fire Hydrants, Valves, Service Connections and Appurtenances — Area B —
Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 607-15 — bid
due April 1, 2016 (advertised 3/9/2016 and 3/16/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

410

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406

March 16, 2016

The City Record

53

City Planning Commission
Clarkwood Rd. (between Central Ave. and Cedar Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 22-16) . . . . . . . . . .
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
Use District (Ward 15) (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Court N.E., vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 258-16). . . . . . . . . . . .
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09)
(R 1513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 07) (R 1512-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St. (between University Rd., and Marquardt Ave.) — establish new setbacks
(Ward 03) (O 254-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Arconas Corporation — renew Contract No. RCD 2014-55 — install power outlets and USB ports
(O 190-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

Cleveland Municipal Court
Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program — grant — Ohio Supreme Court (O 329-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Codified Ordinances
Boxing and Wrestling Commission — amend Section 173.20 — amend Ord. 1759-A-76 — Finance
Department (O 262-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Unmanned AirCraft Systems (Drones) — enact Sections 490.01, 490.02, 490.03, and 490.99 —
Safety Department — Port Control Department (O 330-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362

Communications
Community Conversation Program — $ 1,000 — grant — Inhealth Mutual — Health Department
(F 354-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Donation for Senior Day 2016 — $ 2,200 — Sisters of Charity Foundation (F 347-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Community Development
Amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ord. No. 519-14 — Administrative expenses — appropriating CDBG
and HOME Funds (O 148-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art and music instruction
to city of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the Arts — agreement
(Ward(s) 05, 12 CRF) (O 345-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program (2016) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXII —
Grants (O 115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Community Development Block Grant Program
Amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ord. No. 519-14 — Administrative expenses — appropriating CDBG
and HOME Funds — Community Development Department (O 148-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program (2016) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXII —
Community Development Department — Grants (O 115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Condolences
Jones, Robert (R 356-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Thomas, John Scott (R 357-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Congratulations
Kocab, Joseph (R 358-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Vail, Maurice — 90th Birthday (R 359-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Contracts
ADB Airfield Solutions, LLC — maintain, repair and modify electrical systems at airport
properties (O 189-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arconas Corporation — renew Contract No. RCD 2014-55 — install power outlets and USB ports —
CHIA (O 190-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Asphalt concrete, recycled or virgin — Streets Division — Works Department (O 194-16) . . . . . .
Chagrin Highlands, Ltd. — Master Development Agreement — Amend City Contract No. 40622 —
Economic Development Department (O 149-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

411

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

The City Record

54

March 16, 2016

Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County — Cuyahoga County Criminal
Justice Services Agency — Safety Department — Grant (O 257-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art and music instruction
to city of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the Arts — agreement —
Community Development Department (Ward(s) 05, 12 CRF) (O 345-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corporate Wings Hopkins LLC, dba Atlantic Aviation — amend Contract No. 24675 — extending
their lease (O 198-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development Department — Municipal Utility District Agreement — income tax
sharing with Highland Hills for Chagrin Highlands (O 155-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fencing and gates — Port Control Department (O 333-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Football programs — Cleveland Municipal Football Association (O 331-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Highland Park Golf Course — replacing the bridge and renovating the irrigation system —
public improvement — Works Department — Capital Projects Office (O 195-16) . . . . . . . . . .
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — USEPA Brownfield Assessment grant funding; FY 2015 —
Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga County Board of Health, Northeast Ohio First Suburbs
Consortium — agreement — Economic Development Department (O 157-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, large capacity with operators — rental of — Streets Division — Works Department
(O 122-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Cuyahoga County
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Criminal Justice
Services Agency — Safety Department — Grant (O 257-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — USEPA Brownfield Assessment grant funding; FY 2015 —
Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga County Board of Health, Northeast Ohio First Suburbs
Consortium — agreement — Economic Development Department (O 157-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Homeland Security Grant Program — Aviation (FY 14) — Cuyahoga County Public Safety
and Justice Services — Safety Department — Grant (O 337-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Homeland Security Grant Program — LE (FY 15) — Cuyahoga County Public Safety and
Justice Services — Safety Department — Grant (O 338-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 382
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

Easements
Works Department — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for Otter Park — gift of public
improvement (O 1516-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Economic Development Department
Chagrin Highlands, Ltd. — Master Development Agreement — Amend City Contract No. 40622
(O 149-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
Municipal Utility District Agreement — income tax sharing with Highland Hills for Chagrin
Highlands (O 155-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — USEPA Brownfield Assessment grant funding; FY 2015 —
Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga County Board of Health, Northeast Ohio First Suburbs
Consortium — agreement (O 157-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

Encroachments
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — right-of-way — petroleum pipelines — Buckeye
Partners, L.P. — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1514-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
University Circle — various locations — right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and or surrounding
pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Capital Projects Office — Works
Department (Ward 06) (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

Finance Department
Boxing and Wrestling Commission — amend Section 173.20 — amend Ord. 1759-A-76 (O 262-16)
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds — $ 22,750,000 (O 336-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collinwood Athletic Complex (expansion) — acquire property — Octavia Land Company —
Works Department (Ward 08) (O 117-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $625,000 (O 334-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $ 4,750,000 (O 335-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program — Cleveland Municipal Court — grant — Ohio
Supreme Court (O 329-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 376
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 363
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Grants
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County — Cuyahoga County Criminal
Justice Services Agency — Safety Department (O 257-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Conversation Program — $ 1,000 — Inhealth Mutual — Health Department
(F 354-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Donation for Senior Day 2016 — $ 2,200 — Sisters of Charity Foundation (F 347-16). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program (2016) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXII —
Community Development Department (O 115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

412

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

March 16, 2016

The City Record

55

Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — USEPA Brownfield Assessment grant funding; FY 2015 —
Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga County Board of Health, Northeast Ohio First Suburbs
Consortium — agreement — Economic Development Department (O 157-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program — Cleveland Municipal Court — Ohio Supreme
Court (O 329-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Homeland Security Grant Program — Aviation (FY 14) — Cuyahoga County Public
Safety and Justice Services — Safety Department (O 337-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Homeland Security Grant Program — LE (FY 15) — Cuyahoga County Public Safety and
Justice Services — Safety Department (O 338-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 382
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

Health Department
Community Conversation Program — $ 1,000 — grant — Inhealth Mutual (F 354-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Highland Park Golf Course
Replacing the bridge and renovating the irrigation system — public improvement contracts —
Works Department — Capital Projects Office (O 195-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

House Bill
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

Housing And Urban Development (HUD)
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program (2016) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXII —
Community Development Department — Grants (O 115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Income Tax
Economic Development Department — Municipal Utility District Agreement — income tax
sharing with Highland Hills for Chagrin Highlands (O 155-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

Lease By Way Of Concession
Cleveland Public Library — renew — Eastman Reading Garden in Eastman Park — Works
Department (O 153-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

Leases
Corporate Wings Hopkins LLC, dba Atlantic Aviation — amend Contract No. 24675 — extending
their lease (O 198-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

Licenses
University Circle — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and
or surrounding pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Capital Projects
Office — Works Department (Ward 06) (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

Liquor Permits
Denison Ave., 6625 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 14) (R 339-16) . . . . . . .
East 65th St., 3850 (1st fl. east unit) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 12)
(R 341-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st St., 3924 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1081-12 (Ward 12)
(R 351-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th St., 3145 — withdraw objection to transfer of location — repeal Res. 1244-15
(Ward 05) (R 340-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Huron Rd., 1220 — transfer to another taxing district (Ward 03) (F 348-16) . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4059 — transfer of location application (Ward 17) (F 349-16). . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 12307 — objection to issuance (Ward 08) (R 353-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 2309 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 07) (R 355-16) . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 4611 — objection to transfer of stock (Ward 16) (R 352-16). . . . . . . . . . .
West 85th St., 2184 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 15) (R 343-16) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

385
361
361
386
386
386
385

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD)
Works Department — deeds of easement — property adoption agreement for Otter Park — gift
of public improvement (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Permits
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — petroleum pipelines —
Buckeye Partners, L.P. — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1514-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

413

The City Record

56

March 16, 2016

National Kidney Foundation, Annual Walk — June 5th — National Kidney Foundation
(Ward 03) (O 344-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383
University Circle — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and
or surrounding pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Capital Projects
Office — Works Department (Ward 06) (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

Port Control Department
ADB Airfield Solutions, LLC — contracts — maintain, repair and modify electrical systems
at airport properties (O 189-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arconas Corporation — renew Contract No. RCD 2014-55 — install power outlets and
USB ports — CHIA (O 190-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corporate Wings Hopkins LLC, dba Atlantic Aviation — amend Contract No. 24675 — extending
their lease (O 198-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fencing and gates (O 333-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Unmanned AirCraft Systems (Drones) — enact Sections 490.01, 490.02, 490.03, and 490.99 —
Safety Department (O 330-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362

Public Hearing (Notices)
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
West 6th St. (between University Rd., and Marquardt Ave.) — establish new setbacks — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 254-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406

Public Improvements
Highland Park Golf Course — replacing the bridge and renovating the irrigation system —
contracts — Works Department — Capital Projects Office (O 195-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
Works Department — deeds of easement — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for
Otter Park — gift of (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Public Works
Asphalt concrete, recycled or virgin — Streets Division (O 194-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Library — renew — Lease By Way of Concession — Eastman Reading
Garden in Eastman Park (O 153-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collinwood Athletic Complex (expansion) — acquire property — Octavia Land Company —
Finance Department (Ward 08) (O 117-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Football programs — Cleveland Municipal Football Association (O 331-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Highland Park Golf Course — replacing the bridge and renovating the irrigation system —
public improvement contracts — Capital Projects Office (O 195-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, large capacity with operators — rental of — Streets Division (O 122-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and
or surrounding pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 06) (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deeds of easement — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for Otter Park — gift of public
improvement (O 1516-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Purchases and Supplies Division
Collinwood Athletic Complex (expansion) — acquire property — Octavia Land Company —
Finance Department — Works Department (Ward 08) (O 117-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Races
National Kidney Foundation, Annual Walk — June 5th — National Kidney Foundation
(Ward 03) (O 344-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

Recognition
Top Ladies of Distinction, Inc. (R 360-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Resolution Of Support
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

Safety Department
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County — Cuyahoga County Criminal
Justice Services Agency — Grant (O 257-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
State Homeland Security Grant Program — Aviation (FY 14) — Cuyahoga County Public
Safety and Justice Services — Grant (O 337-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 382
State Homeland Security Grant Program — LE (FY 15) — Cuyahoga County Public Safety and
Justice Services — Grant (O 338-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

414

March 16, 2016

The City Record

57

Unmanned AirCraft Systems (Drones) — enact Sections 490.01, 490.02, 490.03, and 490.99 —
Port Control Department (O 330-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362

Street Vacation
Payne Court N.E., vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 05) (O 258-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 09) (R 1513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 07)
(R 1512-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Streets — Name
Clarkwood Rd. (between Central Ave. and Cedar Ave.) — secondary and honorary
designation — Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way — Capital Projects Office —
City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 22-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Streets Division
Asphalt concrete, recycled or virgin — Works Department (O 194-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
Trucks, large capacity with operators — rental of — Works Department (O 122-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Tax Credits
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

Ward 01
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance — Court Community
Service — agreement — Aging Department (Ward 01 CRF) (O 346-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384

Ward 02
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Ward 03
Huron Rd., 1220 — transfer to another taxing district — liquor permit (F 348-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — petroleum pipelines —
Buckeye Partners, L.P. — Capital Projects Office (O 1514-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Kidney Foundation, Annual Walk — June 5th — National Kidney Foundation
(O 344-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St. (between University Rd., and Marquardt Ave.) — establish new setbacks — City
Planning Commission (O 254-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406

Ward 04
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Ward 05
Clarkwood Rd. (between Central Ave. and Cedar Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 22-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art and music instruction
to city of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the Arts — agreement —
Community Development Department (Ward(s) 05, 12 CRF) (O 345-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th St., 3145 — withdraw objection to transfer of location — repeal Res. 1244-15 —
liquor permit (R 340-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Court N.E., vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(O 258-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Ward 06
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
University Circle — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and
or surrounding pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Capital Projects
Office — Works Department (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388

415

The City Record

58

March 16, 2016

Ward 07
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
St. Clair Ave., 2309 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 355-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (R 1512-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390

Ward 08
Collinwood Athletic Complex (expansion) — acquire property — Octavia Land Company —
Finance Department — Works Department (O 117-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
St. Clair Ave., 12307 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 353-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386

Ward 09
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (R 1513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Top Ladies of Distinction, Inc. — Recognition (R 360-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Ward 10
Jones, Robert — Condolence (R 356-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Ward 11
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Ward 12
Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art and music instruction
to city of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the Arts — agreement —
Community Development Department (Ward(s) 05, 12 CRF) (O 345-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 65th St., 3850 (1st fl. east unit) — objection to transfer of ownership —
liquor permit (R 341-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st St., 3924 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1081-12 — liquor permit
(R 351-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kocab, Joseph — Congratulations (R 358-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Ward 13
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383
Vail, Maurice — 90th Birthday — Congratulations (R 359-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Ward 14
Denison Ave., 6625 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 339-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Ward 15
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
Use District — City Planning Commission (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thomas, John Scott — Condolence (R 357-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 85th St., 2184 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 343-16) . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

406
361
361
385

Ward 16
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
West 130th St., 4611 — objection to transfer of stock — liquor permit (R 352-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386

Ward 17
Pierce, Veronica D. Pratt — Condolence (R 361-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Rocky River Dr., 4059 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 349-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

Zoning
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
West 6th St. (between University Rd., and Marquardt Ave.) — establish new setbacks — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 254-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406

416

