The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

October the Twenty-Sixth, Two Thousand and Sixteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

9

Board of Control

9

Civil Service

11

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

11

2 Zachary Reed
3 Kerry McCormack

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
13

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

15

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

15

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

15

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

16

Committee Meetings

25

Index

25

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kerry McCormack ..............................................1429 West 38th Street
44113
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – _________________ Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Fred Szabo, Interim Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Kim Johnson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Merle Gordon, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – _____________, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – Edward Jamison, Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole West, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Julie Trott, Chair; Giancarlo
Calicchia, Vice Chair; Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Council
Member Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Donald Petit, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 15C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 14C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael R. Sliwinski – Courtroom 13C
Judge Janet Rath Colaluca – Courtroom 12B
Judge Suzan Marie Sweeney – Courtroom 12C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda
– Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

Vol. 103

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016

No. 5368

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2015-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Committee:
Cummins
Services
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, J. Johnson, McCormack.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson (CHAIR), Dow (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Kazy, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR),
Cummins,
Dow,
McCormack, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt (CHAIR), Brady (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Kazy, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:

FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Mitchell (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Dow, Kelley.

File No. 1285-16.
RE: #8788452. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A.
TastebudFoods LLC, 991 East 185th
St. (Ward 8). Received.

Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Mitchell, Kelley, Keane,
Zone.
Committee:
Rules
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Polensek, Pruitt.

Kelley
Keane,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, October 24, 2016
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:01 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.

Council Members present: Dona
Brady, Anthony Brancatelli, Phyllis
E. Cleveland, Kevin Conwell, Brian
J. Cummins, Jeffrey D. Johnson,
Kenneth L. Johnson, Brian Kazy,
Kevin J. Kelley, Martin J. Keane,
Kerry
McCormack,
Mamie
J.
Mitchell, Michael D. Polensek, Zack
Reed, and Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Edward W.
Rybka, Chief of Education Monyka
S. Price, Media Relations Director
Dan Williams, and Directors Szabo,
Gordon,
McGrath,
Cox,
O’Leary,
Nichols, Griffin, Collier, Fumich and
Burrows.
MOTION
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Cummins, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member McCormack.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
PLAT
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Kazy, Keane, McCormack,
Mitchell, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Kazy, Reed.

File No. 1284-16.
Dedication Plat for Huron Road
Relocation, between Euclid Avenue
and East 14th Street. Approved by
Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, and Development
Planning and Sustainability. Without objection, Plat approved.

1573

File No. 1286-16.
RE: #6448039. New License Application, F10. North Union Farmers
Market, 13209 Shaker Sq. (Ward 4).
Received.
File No. 1287-16.
RE: #3246657. New License Application, C2. Goldberg Investments
Group LLC, 4200 West 130th St.
(Ward 16). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The Rules were suspended and
the
following
Resolutions
were
adopted by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1290-16 — Lillie Mae
House.
Res. No. 1291-16 — David Howard
Colvin.
Res. No. 1292-16 — Leroy Frank
Hunter, Sr.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1293-16 — John & Annie
B. Hudson – 70th Wedding Anniversary.
Res. No. 1294-16 — Jacob R. Darvas.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1295-16 — Naomi Bedell –
100th Birthday.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1273-16.
By Council Members Cummins,
Brancatelli and Keane.
An emergency ordinance allowing
the Regional Transit Authority to
place advertising on permitted bus
shelters and transit stations.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,

4
1976, the Regional Transit Authority
or its authorized contractor may place
advertising on any bus shelter or in
any transit station for which a proper
permit has been issued, so long as
such advertising complies with Chapters 350, 680A and 680B and any other
relevant sections of the Codified Ordinances.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Transportation, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1274-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 9 of Ordinance No. 856-07,
passed May 21, 2007, as amended by
various ordinances, relating to authorizing development agreements for
Reinvestment
Areas
Community
under Section 3735.65 et seq. of the
Revised Code.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 85607, passed May 21, 2007, and through
the authority of Section 3735.65 et seq.
of the Revised Code, this Council
established the City of Cleveland as a
Community Reinvestment Area; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 7612, passed May 14, 2012, this Council
amended Ordinance No. 856-07, to
establish new green building standards for construction or remodeling
performed under those ordinances
and also extended the eligibility date
for residential tax abatements to
June 4, 2017; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 149315, passed January 25, 2016, this Council amended 856-07, to authorize the
Director of Community Development
to enter into development agreements
for any phased project that applies
for and meets the eligibility requirements for residential tax abatement;
and
Whereas, the City wishes to remove
the word “phased” so that the ordinance includes any project that
applies for and meets the eligibility
requirements for residential tax
abatement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 9 of Ordinance No. 856-07, passed May 21, 2007,
as amended by Ordinance No. 76-12,
passed May 14, 2012, and Ordinance
No. 1493-15 passed January 25, 2016, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 9. That the Community
Reinvestment Area described in this
ordinance shall expire on June 4, 2017,
unless an extension is authorized by
an amendment of Cleveland City
Council; provided, however that if for
any reason the designation of the
area is revoked by the City or the
terms of the abatement provided
under this ordinance are modified or
allowed to expire, the entitlements
granted under this ordinance for any

The City Record
residential project defined as a single
family project or multi-unit rental or
for-sale development project, with a
letter of commitment for its project
financing, for which a development
agreement has been entered into with
the City by the Director of Community
Development, prior to June 4, 2017,
shall continue at the current percentage of exemption and term of years.
Single family construction or remodeling that is not part of a defined or
scattered development site or project,
and where a permit to perform the
improvements is issued by the City
prior to the June 4, 2017 expiration of
the current tax abatement Ordinance
No. 76-12, does not require a development agreement and the abatement
will continue at the current percentage of exemption and term of years.
Further, that the Director of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter into such development
agreements from the date of passage
of this ordinance until June 4, 2017
and that the Director of Community
Development shall receive the consent of the City Council representative of the Ward that a development
project is located in prior to executing
a development agreement for that
project.
Real property transferred by the
City of Cleveland, Land Reutilization
Program (“Land Bank”), from January 1, 2015 through June 4, 2017 for
single-family residential development shall qualify for residential tax
abatement at current approved levels
(100% for 15 years) if construction is
commenced and completed within the
time frames stipulated within the
City‘s Official Deed.
Section 2. That existing Section 9 of
Ordinance No. 856-07, passed May 21,
2007, as amended by Ordinance No. 7612, passed May 14, 2012, and Ordinance
No. 1493-15 passed January 25, 2016, is
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 1275-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Secretary of the Civil Service
Commission to enter into an amendment to Contract No. CT 1511 PS 2016222 with Ergometrics & Applied Personnel Research, Inc. to provide additional civil transportability studies
and civil service testing for entry
level law enforcement officers, for
the Department of Public Safety and
to extend the term of the contract
until December 31, 2017.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Secretary of the
Civil Service Commission is authorized to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. CT 1511 PS 2016-222 with
Ergometrics & Applied Personnel

1574

October 26, 2016
Research, Inc. to provide additional
civil transportability studies and civil
service testing for entry level law
enforcement officers, for the Department of Public Safety and to extend
the term of the contract until December 31, 2017. All other terms and conditions contained in the contract shall
remain the same.
Section 2. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 3. That the costs of the contract amendment shall not exceed
$100,000 and shall be paid from funds
deemed appropriate by the Director of
Finance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Secretary of Civil Service Commission and Directors of
Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1276-16.
By Council Members Brady and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of maintaining and
improving the interior and exterior of
various buildings, sites, and related
systems, including but not limited to,
roofs; authorizing the Director of
Public Utilities to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts to
construct the improvement; and
authorizing the director to employ
one or more professional consultants
necessary to design the improvement,
for a period of two years for contracts
executed by December 31, 2019.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of maintaining
and improving the interior and exterior of various buildings, sites, and
related systems, including but not
limited to, the repair and replacement
of roofs for a period of two years for
contracts executed by December 31,
2019 (the “Improvement”), for the various divisions of the Department of
Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to

October 26, 2016
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to design
the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 50 SF 002, 52 SF
001, 54 SF 001, 54 SF 400, 58 SF 001, and
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the proceeds from the sale of
future bonds, if issued for this purpose, Request No. RQS 2002, RL 201686.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1277-16.
By Council Members Brady and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services necessary to repair and maintain the decorative and special lighting for City
bridges and the Wyland Whale Mural
Park on North Marginal Road, including labor and insurance, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which
requires
additional
legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a period
of two years with two one-year
options to renew, of the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to repair
and maintain the decorative and special lighting for City bridges and the
Wyland Whale Mural Park on North
Marginal Road, including labor and
insurance,
in
the
approximate

The City Record
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities. The first of
the one-year options to renew may not
be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional
legislative authority is granted and
the first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second of
the one-year options to renew may be
exercised at the option of the Director
of Public Utilities, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority
of this Council. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1278-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 226-15,
passed April 13, 2015, as amended by
various ordinances, to add additional
funding for parking revenue control
equipment and software, including
reporting functions, for the West Side
Market Parking Lot.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 22615, passed April 13, 2015, this Council
authorized the Director of Public
Works to enter into contract to purchase parking revenue control equipment and software with reporting features for the Willard Park Garage
and the East Gateway Garage, including labor and installation, for the
Division of Parking Facilities; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 226-15 was
amended by Ordinance No. 1351-15,
passed December 7, 2015, to add professional services and to modify the

1575

5
purchase contracts and because of the
addition of the professional services,
existing Sections 2, 3, and 4 of Ordinance No. 226-15, were renumbered to
new Sections 4, 5, and 6; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 226-15, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1351-15,
was further amended by Ordinance
No. 540-16, passed May 23, 2016, to
include the West Side Market Parking Lot in the project; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
amend Section 3 of Ordinance No. 22615, as renumbered to Section 5 by Ordinance No. 1351-15 among other things,
and as amended by Ordinance No. 54016; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 226-15, passed April 13, 2015,
as amended and renumbered to Section 5 by Ordinance No. 1351-15, passed
December 7, 2015, as further amended
by Ordinance No. 540-16, passed May
23, 2016, is amended to read as follows:
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 517, 20 SF
524, 20 SF 532, 20 SF 539, 20 SF 545, 20
SF 551, 20 SF 553, 20 SF 559, 20 SF 562,
20 SF 566, 20 SF 573, 20 SF 843, 20 SF
869, and 65 SF 009, RQS 7008, RL 201533.
Section 2. That existing Section 3 of
Ordinance No. 226-15, passed April 13,
2015, as amended and renumbered to
Section 5 by Ordinance No. 1351-15,
passed December 7, 2015, as further
amended by Ordinance No. 540-16,
passed May 23, 2016, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1279-16.
By Council Members Brady and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
apply for NEORSD Community Cost
Share Program Funds; to enter into
an agreement with The Cleveland
Metroparks to serve as a sub-grantee
to design, construct and maintain up
to four bioretention cells at Wildwood
Park, for the Office of Sustainability,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of at least fifteen years.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 64215, passed July 22, 2015, the Director
of Public Utilities applied for and
accepted a grant from the US EPA in
the amount of $175,000 for the City of
Cleveland Bioretention at Wildwood
Park Project (“Wildwood Park Project”); and
Whereas, as part of the above grant
application, the City committed to
contribute $175,000 of the NEORSD
Community Cost Share Program
funds as a match for the Wildwood
Park Project for a total project budget of $350,000; and

6
Whereas, in 2013, management of
the City’s Lakefront properties, including Wildwood Park, was assumed by
Cleveland Metroparks (“Metroparks”);
and
Whereas, the City wishes to enter
into an agreement with Metroparks to
implement the Wildwood Park Project by sub-granting the total project
budget of $350,000 to Metroparks in
order for them to design, construct,
and maintain up to four bioretention
cells at Wildwood Park; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply for
and accept funding from the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
under the NEORSD Community Cost
Share Program in the amount of
$175,000, to conduct the Wildwood
Park Project; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the program;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in this
ordinance.
Section 2. That a copy of the grant
agreement from the US EPA and the
project narrative is placed in File No.
1279-16-A.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as any exception to any section of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into and
execute one or more agreements with
Metroparks to implement the Wildwood Park Project, including but not
limited to, defining responsibilities
under the US EPA grant agreement
and NEORSD Community Cost Share
Program. The agreement shall provide that it is Metropark’s responsibility to provide for the design, construction and maintenance of up to
four bioretention cells at Wildwood
Park for a period of at least fifteen
years, and that the City as the main
US EPA grant recipient, will retain
primary responsibility for grant compliance and reporting, and will ensure
that Metroparks complies with all
grant terms and conditions during
project implementation, and contain
other provisions needed to implement
the Wildwood Park Project.
Section 4. That the agreement or
agreements will be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That this Council authorizes payment to Metroparks, as subgrantee, in an amount up to $350,000
to implement the Wildwood Park Project as described in the file, payable
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the US EPA Grant funds
applied for and accepted under Ordinance No. 642-16, passed July 22, 2015,
and the fund or funds to which are
credited the NEORSD Community
Cost Share Program funds authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1280-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with Court
Community Services to establish and
manage a work program at the House
of Corrections for eligible inmates
and to place the inmates into the
work program for a period up to one
year; and amend Section 135.59 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 as amended by Ordinance
No. 1871-06 passed December 11, 2006,
relating to inmate labor.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Court Community
Services to establish and manage a
work program at the House of Corrections for eligible inmates and to place
the inmates into the work program,
for a period up to one year, for the
Division of Corrections, Department
of Public Safety.
Section 2. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the agreement.
Section 3. That Section 135.59 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1871-06, passed December 11, 2006
is amended to read as follows:
Section 135.59 Inmate Labor
The Commissioner of Correction
may require persons sentenced to confinement in the House of Corrections:
(a) To perform appropriate labor
within the House of Corrections, on
its grounds, or at any other facility or
project owned or operated by the City
of Cleveland, the United States of
America, or the State of Ohio, and any
of its political subdivisions;
(b) To perform work outside of the
House of Corrections or on its
grounds, or other facilities described
in division (a) under a voluntary
work program established by the
Commissioner. The Commissioner
shall promulgate rules for the operation of the program.
Section 4. That existing Section
135.59 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1871-06, passed December 11, 2006 is repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1281-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
employ one or more professional consultants to provide services necessary
to manage the West Side Market
Parking Lot, for a period not to
exceed three years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

1576

October 26, 2016
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to manage the West Side Market Parking
Lot, for a period not to exceed three
years.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Works from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Works for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Works, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract
or contracts authorized shall be paid
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the fees collected from the
operation of the West Side Market
Parking Lot.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1282-16.
By Council Members Mitchell, K.
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into a maintenance, inspection,
and repair agreement and to issue an
encroachment permit, either separately or in combination with the agreement, to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation to encroach into the public
rights-of-way over East 105th Street
and Wilbur Avenue by installing,
using and maintaining pedestrian
bridges.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
a maintenance, inspection, and repair
agreement with and to issue an
encroachment permit revocable at the
will of Council, either separately or in
combination with the agreement, to
The Cleveland Clinic Foundation,
9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44195 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public rights-of-way over East
105th Street and Wilbur Avenue by
installing, using and maintaining
pedestrian bridges at locations further described as follows:

October 26, 2016
Pedestrian bridge encroachment
over East 105th Street
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and being part of East 105th
Street, and being the proposed
encroachment
herein
described
extending between planes at elevations 731.47 feet and 712.80 feet above
mean sea level as determined by the
Cleveland Regional Geodetic Survey,
converted to NAVO 1988 Datum, and
being more fully bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of East 105th Street
(currently 60' wide) and the centerline of Wilbur Avenue (50' wide),
thence North 88°51'30" East along the
said centerline of Wilbur Avenue a
distance of 72.21 feet to a point thereon;
Thence North 01°09'30" West, a distance of 26.54 feet to a point on the
proposed Easterly line of East 105th
Street and being the Place of Beginning of the proposed encroachment
herein described;
Course No. 1:
Thence South 89°17'44" West along
the Southerly line of said proposed
encroachment, a distance of 102.00
feet to a point on the Westerly line of
East 105th Street;
Course No. 2:
Thence North 00°42'16" West along
the said Westerly line of East 105th
Street, a distance of 14.17 feet to a
point on the Northerly line of said proposed encroachment;
Course No. 3:
Thence North 89°17'44" East along
the said Northerly line of proposed
encroachment, a distance of 102.00
feet to a point on the said proposed
Easterly line of East 105th Street;
Course No. 4:
Thence South 00°42'16" East along
the said proposed Easterly line of
East 105th Street, a distance of 14.17
feet to the place of beginning of the
encroachment herein described containing 0.0332 acres according to the
exhibit by Atwell, LLC dated September, 2016 and being subject to all legal
highways and easements.
Pedestrian bridge encroachment
over Wilbur Avenue
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and being part of Wilbur
Avenue, and being the proposed
encroachment
herein
described
extending between planes at elevations 731.47 feet and 712.80 feet above
mean sea level as determined by the
Cleveland Regional Geodetic Survey,
converted to NAVD 1988 Datum, and
being more fully bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of East 105th Street
(currently 60' wide) and the centerline of Wilbur Avenue (50' wide),
Thence North 88°51'30" East along
the said centerline of Wilbur Avenue,
a distance of 72.81 feet to a point
thereon;
Thence South 01°08'30" East, a distance of 25.00 feet to a point on the
Southerly line of Wilbur Avenue;
Thence North 88°51'30" East along
the said Southerly line of Wilbur
Avenue, a distance of 35.00 feet to a
point thereon and being the Place of
Beginning of the proposed encroachment herein described;

The City Record
Course No. 1:
Thence North 00°42'16" West along
the Westerly line of said proposed
encroachment, a distance of 50.00 feet
to a point on the Northerly line of
Wilbur Avenue;
Course No. 2:
Thence North 88°51'30" East along
the said Northerly line of Wilbur
Avenue, a distance of 14.17 feet to a
point on the Easterly line of said proposed encroachment;
Course No. 3:
Thence South 00°42'16" East along
the said Easterly line of proposed
encroachment, a distance of 50.00 feet
to a point on the Southerly line of
Wilbur Avenue;
Course No. 4:
Thence South 88°51'30" West along
the said Southerly line of Wilbur
Avenue, a distance of 14.17 feet to the
place of beginning of the encroachment herein described containing
0.0163 acres according to the exhibit
by Atwell, LLC dated September, 2016
and being subject to all legal highways and easements.
Legal Descriptions approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
maintenance, inspection, and repair
agreement with The Cleveland Clinic
Foundation for pedestrian bridges
permitted to encroach into various
public rights-of-way under encroachment permits issued under the authority of previous ordinances.
Section 3. That Permittee may
assign any agreement and/or permit
only with the prior written consent of
the Director of Capital Projects. That
the encroaching structure(s) permitted under this ordinance shall conform to plans and specifications first
approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required
permits, including but not limited to
Building Permits, before installing
the encroachment(s).
Section 4. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the agreements and/or
permits authorized by this ordinance
and shall incorporate such additional
provisions as the director determines
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The agreements
and/or permits shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of
Law, Permittee has properly indemnified the City against any loss that
may result from Permittee’s acts or
omissions under an agreement and/or
permit or from the encroachment(s)
permitted.
Section 5. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 6 That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.

1577

7
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 1272-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution finding
the fraudulent actions of Wells
Fargo bank inexcusable and insisting that it be prohibited from doing
business with the state of Ohio for
a minimum of five years.
Whereas, federal and California
authorities have fined Wells Fargo
bank
$185
million
dollars
for
defrauding thousands of customers
out of millions of dollars by opening unauthorized credit and banking
accounts; and
Whereas, the Wells Fargo CEO,
John Stumpf, recently resigned with
a retirement payout reported to be
$134 million; and
Whereas,
Ohio
Governor
John
Kasich has said that Wells Fargo
has lost the right to do business
with the state of Ohio for at least
one year and Ohio State Treasurer
Josh Mandel put a freeze on new
business with Wells Fargo; and
Whereas, United States Senator
for Ohio Sherrod Brown has said
that “until it lays out concrete steps
to make things right, [Wells Fargo]
doesn’t deserve the state of Ohio’s
business”; and
Whereas, this Council believes
that the actions of Wells Fargo are
inexcusable and that this giant
bank does not deserve to do business with the State of Ohio for at
least five years; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by theCouncil of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council finds
the fraudulent actions of Wells
Fargo bank inexcusable and insists
that it be prohibited from doing
business with the state of Ohio for
a minimum of five years.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to Governor John
Kasich, Senator Sherrod Brown and
Ohio Treasurer Josh Mandel.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1283-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 3 and 5 of Ordinance No. 57516, passed June 6, 2016; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new
Sections 3a, 3b, and 3c, to authorize
contracts needed to implement the
grant received from Environmental
Health Watch for the Build Health
Challenge Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

8
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 3 and 5 of
Ordinance No. 575-16, passed June 6,
2016, are amended to read as follows:
Section 3. That under Section
108(B) of the Charter, purchases
made under the grant agreement may
be
made
through
cooperative
arrangements with other governmental agencies. The Director of Building
and Housing may sign all documents
and do all things that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts authorized in this ordinance
shall be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited any grant funds
accepted under this ordinance and
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 562 and 20 SF
566.
Section 2. That Sections 3 and 5 of
Ordinance No. 575-16, passed June 6,
2016, are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 57516, passed June 6, 2016, is supplemented by adding new Sections 3a, 3b, and
3c to read as follows:
Section 3a. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services
necessary to implement the Program.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Building and Housing
from a list of qualified consultants
available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Building
and Housing for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed by
the Board of Control. The contract or
contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Building
and Housing, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 3b. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to make one or more written standard
purchase
contracts
and
written
requirement contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the period of
requirements to be determined by the
director, for the necessary items of
materials, supplies, and services
needed to implement the Program, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for Department of Building and
Housing. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 3c. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of any purchase under the
contract, each of which purchases
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the
Director of Finance.

The City Record
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1288-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 768 East 200th
Street, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Fat Boys, Inc., 768 East
200th Street, 1st Floor & Basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permit Number 2655482 to Flare LLC, DBA:
Flare, 768 East 200th Street, 1st
Floor & Basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44119 Permit Number 2771150; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by theCouncil of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from
Fat Boys, Inc. 768 East 200th Street, 1st
Floor & Basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permit Number 2655482 to Flare

1578

October 26, 2016
LLC, DBA: Flare, 768 East 200th Street,
1st Floor & Basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permit Number 2771150; and
requests the Superintendent of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application
in
accordance
with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies of
a letter of objection and two copies of
a letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
15. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1289-16.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
location of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6
Liquor Permit at 668 Euclid Avenue,
Suite 8, and repealing Resolution No.
940-16, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of location of a D2,
D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit to
VIP Beauty Bar, LLC, DBA Manifest, 668 Euclid Avenue, Suite 8,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
No. 9283393 by Resolution No. 940-16
adopted by the Council on August
10, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by theCouncil of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit to VIP Beauty Bar, LLC, DBA Manifest, 668
Euclid Avenue, Suite 8, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114, Permanent No. 9283393,
be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 940-16,
containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
15. Nays 0.

October 26, 2016
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 773-16.
By Mayor Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 571.01 and 571.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
325-04, passed May 10, 2004, relating to
City Airport definitions and vehicles
for hire; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new Section 571.131, relating to Transportation Network Services and Fees.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1016-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Brady and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance declaring
a moratorium on the review and
issuance of zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, and other license
or permit applications that would
enable cultivators, processors and
retail dispensaries of medical marijuana in the City of Cleveland.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1028-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into one or more
contracts with SoundCom Systems for
professional services necessary to
maintain and support the audio
paging
sound
system
for
the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of one year with three one-year
options to renew, the second of which
shall require additional legislative
authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control,
Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended by Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1030-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to employ one or more
professional consultants to provide air
and cargo service consulting and
advising services for a period of one
year, with three one-year options to
renew, the second of which requires
additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control,
Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended by Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1161-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. PS 2013-22 with Science Applications International Corporation, nka
Leidos, Inc. to provide additional regulatory compliance services for an
additional three months, for the
Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1162-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more Master Leases
and Agreements with various signatory airlines and cargo carriers for
the use and occupancy of certain Cityowned spaces located at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, for a
period of five years, with two options
to renew each for a period of two
years, exercisable by the Director of
Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1163-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts with
LHD & Associates, Inc. for federal
government lobbying services necessary to assist the Department of Port
Control with airport-related federal
agencies and issues for a term of two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which shall require
additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1261-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
employ one or more professional consultants to develop a data collection
and analysis system for the Division
of Police, including but not limited to
acquiring or developing software and
performing other related services;
and authorizing one or more standard
purchase and requirement contracts
for the purchase, lease, or lease with
option to purchase of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services,
needed to implement the project, for a
period of one year, with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.

1579

9
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1160-16.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An ordinance changing the Use and
Area Districts of parcels along Lee
Road south of the City border with
Shaker Heights and north of the Erie
Rail Road Company line (south of
Miles Ave), and along a portion of
Harvard Ave. and establishing an
Urban Overlay district for the same
areas as identified on the attached
map (Map Change No. 2542).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Cummins, the absences of Council
Members TJ Dow and Terrell H.
SecPruitt are hereby authorized.
onded by Council Member McCormack.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:20 p.m. to the call of the chair.
The next regular Council meeting
will be on Monday afternoon, October 31, 2016, in the Council Chamber,
time to be announced.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next
meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
October 19, 2016
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, October 19,
2016 at 10:34 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Acting
Directors
Shaw,
Flask, Directors Cox, Gordon, Acting
Directors Hennessy, Cosgrove, Directors West, Nichols, Acting Director
Odum, and Director O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Tiffany White Johnson,
Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.

The City Record

10
Matthew Spronz, Director, Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects.
Melissa Burrows, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 432-16.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on September 9,
2016 for the public improvement of
the Phase 2 AMR Deployment for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, under the authority of Ordinance No. 655-16, passed
July 13, 2016, are rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Acting
Directors
Shaw,
Flask, Directors Cox, Gordon, Acting
Directors Hennessy, Cosgrove, Directors West, Nichols, Acting Director
Odum, and Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 433-16.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
702-16, passed July 13, 2016, Brilliency, Inc. is selected from a list of
firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities as the firm to be
employed by contract to administer
a Online Consumer Engagement
Program, for a period of two years,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
Brilliency, Inc. based upon its proposal dated, September 19, 2016,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
that the compensation for the professional services described in the
proposal shall not exceed $80,000.00,
and shall contain such other provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by Brilliency, Inc. for
the
above-mentioned
professional
services is approved:
SUB-CONSULTANTS

HLMS Sustainability
Solutions (CSB)

WORK
PERCENTAGE

$24,000.00
30.000%

Sanctuary Software Studio $33,000.00
0%
All Facilities

$ 5,900.00
0%

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Acting
Directors
Shaw,
Flask, Directors Cox, Gordon, Acting
Directors Hennessy, Cosgrove, Directors West, Nichols, Acting Director
Odum, and Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 434-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Whereas, under the authority of

October 26, 2016

Ordinance No. 1530-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
November 12, 2012, the City, through
its Director of Port Control entered
into City Contract No. RC2013*076
with Tyco Simplex-Grinnell (“Tyco”)
of the necessary items of materials,
equipment, supplies and services
necessary to maintain, repair and
expand the integrated fire and security system for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control;
and
Whereas, by its September 6, 2016
letter, Tyco notified the City that on
September 2, 2016 Tyco merged into
Johnson Controls, Inc., requested the
City’s authorization for assignment
of current Contract No. RC2013*076
(“Contract”) from Tyco to Johnson
Controls, Inc. and represented Johnson Controls, Inc. will honor all of
the terms and conditions under the
Contract; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the terms of City Contract No.
RC2013*076, this Board authorizes
the assignment of the Contract from
Tyco Simplex-Grinnell to Johnson
Controls, Inc.; provided, however,
that the parties do all things necessary and appropriate to implement
the above-mentioned assignment and
that Johnson Controls, Inc. assumes
and performs all of Tyco SimplexGrinnell’s obligations under the Contract. The City’s authorization of the
assignment does not waive any of
Tyco Simplex-Grinnell’s obligations
or the City’s rights under the Contract against Tyco Simplex-Grinnell
prior to the effective date of the
assignment.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to execute all documents and
to do all things necessary and
appropriate to implement the assignment authorized above, provided
that the terms of the above mentioned assignment do not conflict
with or modify the terms and conditions
of
City
Contract
No.
RC2013*076.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Acting
Directors
Shaw,
Flask, Directors Cox, Gordon, Acting
Directors Hennessy, Cosgrove, Directors West, Nichols, Acting Director
Odum, and Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 435-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by Peregrine Advisors, LLC, under City Contract No.
PS2013*025 for the professional services of providing financial consulting services, including financial
analysis, forecasting and evaluating
financial information for the Department of Port Control, authorized by
Ordinance No. 816-12, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 4, 2012, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 30-13, as amended by
Resolution No. 255-14, adopted January 16, 2013 and June 18, 2014,
respectively, is approved.
Subcontractors

CSB%
Amount

LeighFisher

Non-CSB
$15,000.00

1580

Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Acting
Directors
Shaw,
Flask, Directors Cox, Gordon, Acting
Directors Hennessy, Cosgrove, Directors West, Nichols, Acting Director
Odum, and Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 436-16.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Perk Company, Inc.
for the public improvement of Clark
Avenue (Lorain Avenue to West 41st
Street), all items, for the Division of
Engineering
and
Construction,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects,
received on September 29, 2016,
under the authority of Ordinances
Nos. 1348-14 and 1101-15, passed by
the
Cleveland
City
Council
on
December 1, 2014, and November 9,
2015, respectively, upon a unit basis
for the improvement, in the aggregate amount of $7,892,775.07, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Capital Projects is authorized to
enter into contract for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Perk Company, Inc.
the
above-mentioned
public
for
improvement is approved:
Cuyahoga Supply and Tool, Inc.
(CSB/MBE) — $57,850.00 (0.7%)
Tech Ready Mix
(CSB/MBE) — $592,925.00 (7.5%)
Trafftech, Inc.
(CSB) — $274,104.00 (3.80%)
PGT Construction, Inc.
(CSB/FBE) — $48,300.00 (0.6%)
Petty Group, Inc.
(CSB/MBE) — $1,656,821.00 (21.0%)
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Dumas,
Acting
Directors
Shaw,
Flask, Directors Cox, Gordon, Acting
Directors Hennessy, Cosgrove, Directors West, Nichols, Acting Director
Odum, and Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 437-16.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 127-13-046 located at 9200 Laisy
Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Valarie J. McCall has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and

The City Record

October 26, 2016
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Valarie J. McCall
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 127-13-046 located
at 9200 Laisy Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Langhenry,
Acting
Directors
Shaw,
Dumas,
Flask, Directors Cox, Gordon, Acting
Directors Hennessy, Cosgrove, Directors West, Nichols, Acting Director
Odum, and Director O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing will be notified of the results of
the examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
There-after, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of
the names of those candidates who
have been successful in all parts of
the examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 16-262: 2220 West 93rd
Street (Ward 15)
Friends of Breakthrough Schools,
owner, proposes to demolish a parking lot and build a gymnasium in a
B1 Two-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 349.02 which states that
no off street parking shall be voluntary reduced and the appellant is
proposing to demolish parking lot
spaces without relocating them.
2. Section 349.04(e) which states
that the parking area equal must be
equal to 3 times the floor area of
proposed gymnasium (5,631 square
feet x 3) which, in this case is 16,893
and no new parking is proposed. As
parking area is being removed for
new gym addition.
3. Section 357.04(a) which states
that a front yard equal to 15% of
the depth of the lot is required and
no front setback is proposed. (Filed
October 7, 2016)

11
(1/4) the height of the main building on the premises. Building height
is approximately 34' - 5" thus no
interior side yard shall be les than
8' - 5" and a 5' - 0" side yard is proposed.
4. Section 341.02(b) which states
that City Planning approval is
required prior to the issuance of a
building permit. (Filed October 10,
2016)

Calendar No. 16-263: 13700 Larchmere
Boulevard (Ward 4)
Susan Spring, owner, proposes to
generator/air
conditioner
install
units in the required side yard in an
A1 One-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the strict application of the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that in residence districts the
required interior side yard shall be
in no case less than 1/4 the height
of the main building.
2. Section 357.13 which states that
Generator, A/C units are not permitted encroachments in the interior side yard. (Filed October 7, 2016)

Calendar No. 16-265: 2100 West 19th
Street (Ward 3)
Urban Investments, owner, proposes to erect a 3,480 square foot
single family house in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the maximum gross floor area
in a “B” area district shall not
exceed 1/2 the lot area, or in this
case 1,540 square feet and 3,480
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.09(b)(2)(A) which
states that no building shall be
erected less than then 10 feet from
a main building on an adjoining lot.
Proposed distance to adjacent residence is 8' - 2".
3. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that in a two family district
no interior side yard shall be less
than five (5) feet in width for a corner lot, nor less than three (3) feet
in width for an interior lot, nor shall
the aggregate width of side yards
on the same premises be less than
then (10) feet. However, the width
of any such interior side yard shall
in no case be less than one-fourth
(1/4) the height of the main building on the premises. Building height
is approximately 33' - 8" thus no
interior side yard shall be less than
8' - 5" and a 3' - 1" side yard is proposed.
4. Section 341.02(b) which states
that City Planning approval is
required prior to the issuance of a
building permit. (Filed October 10,
2016)

Calendar No. 16-264: 2092 West 19th
Street (Ward 3)
Urban Investments, owner, proposes to erect a 3,655 square foot
single family house in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the maximum gross floor area
in a “B” area district shall not
exceed 1/2 the lot area, or in this
case 1,950 square feet and 3,655
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.09(b)(2)(A) which
states that no building shall be
erected less than then 10 feet from
a main building on an adjoining lot.
Proposed distance to adjacent residence is 8' - 2".
3. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that in a two family district
no interior side yard shall be less
than five (5) feet in width for a corner lot, nor less than three (3) feet
in width for an interior lot, nor shall
the aggregate width of side yards
on the same premises be less than
then (10) feet. However, the width
of any such interior side yard shall
in no case be less than one-fourth

Calendar No. 16-266: 2086 West 19th
Street (Ward 3)
Urban Investments, owner, proposes to erect a 3,893 square foot
single family house in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
strict application of the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the maximum gross floor area
in a “B” area district shall not
exceed 1/2 the lot area, or in this
case 1,896 square feet and 3,893
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) which
states that in a two family district
no interior side yard shall be less
than five (5) feet in width for a corner lot, nor less than three (3) feet
in width for an interior lot, nor shall
the aggregate width of side yards
on the same premises be less than
then (10) feet. However, the width
of any such interior side yard shall
in no case be less than one-fourth
(1/4) the height of the main building on the premises. Building height
is approximately 34' - 5" thus no
interior side yard shall be less than
8' - 5" and a 5' - 6" side yard is proposed.

1581

The City Record

12
3. Section 341.02(b) which states
that City Planning approval is
required prior to the issuance of a
building permit. (Filed October 10,
2016)
Calendar No. 16-268: 12301 Oakfield
Avenue (Ward 4)
Charles A. Cavor Sr., owner, proposes to change use from a two family
dwelling
to
a
three-family
dwelling in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the strict application
of the following sections of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 337.03 which states that
in a Two-Family Residential District a three family dwelling is not
permitted but is first permitted in a
Multi-Family Residential District.
2. Section 337.03(c) which states
that the Board of Zoning Appeals,
may grant special permit for remodeling of existing dwelling houses to
provide for more than two dwelling
units but not more than six dwelling
units provided that:
(1) The square feet of lot area to
be allotted to each dwelling unit is
in accordance with the area regulations included in Chapter 355;
(2)The dwelling units to be created will be not smaller than two
(2) rooms and a bathroom;
(3) There will be no exterior evidence that a remodeled dwelling
house is occupied be more than two
families, excepts such as may be
permitted by the Board.
(4) The building when altered or
erected and when occupied will conform to al the applicable provisions
of the Building and Housing Codes
and as the Commissioner of Building and the Commissioner of Housing so certify;
(5) Garage space or hard surfaced
and drained parking space will be
provide upon the premises for the
cars of the families to be accommodated on the premises at the rate of
not less than one car per family.
3. Section 355.04 which states that
the minimum lot area for a three
family dwelling is 7,200 square feet
and the existing lot area is 6,000
square feet. (Filed October 11, 2016)

October 26, 2016

less than (10) feet. However, the
width of any such yard interior side
yard shall in no case be less onefourth (1/4) the height of the main
building on the premises. Building
mean height is approximately 36' 2" thus no interior side yard shall
be less than 8' - 1/2" and a 5' - 0"
side yard is proposed. (Filed August
5, 2016)
First postponement made at the
request of the Development Corporation to allow for further review.
POSTPONED FROM
SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
Calendar No. 16-226: 3854 East 54th
Street (Ward 12)
Tonja Stollings, owner, proposes
to erect an 18' x 14' one (1) story
aluminum carport attached to existing garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the strict application
of Section 337.23(7)(A) of the Cleveland
Codified
Ordinances
which
states that the maximum square
footage for accessory building shall
not exceed 650 square feet and the
appellant is proposing 828 square
feet. (Filed August 17, 2016)
First postponement made at the
request of the Councilman due to a
landbank lot issue.

Calendar No. 16-251: 6920 Gertrude
Avenue
Walter Eddy, owner, proposes to
erect a 31' x 31' 1 story frame
accessory detached gable garage on
vacant lot in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-253: 2155 Superior
Avenue
Sunshine Diversified Investments
III LLC., owner, proposes to establish use as tattooing/body piercing
establishment in a C4 Semi-Industry
District.
Calendar No. 16-254: 10500 Lorain
Avenue
Emir Abeid, owner, proposes to
erect a 7,380 square foot building for
sales, offices, and equipment area
for a retail locksmith business in a
C2 General Retail Business District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

appeals

were

None.

POSTPONED FROM
OCTOBER 3, 2016
Calendar No. 16-241: 14735 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 17)
WPE LLC. , owner (aka Juan and
Lillian Chahda), propose to change
use from tool & die shop to storage
facility in a B1 General Retail Business District and a C1 General
District.
The
owner
Industry
appeals for relief from the strict
application
of
Section
359.01(a)
which states that substitution of a
non-conforming
use
requires
approval/special permit from the
Board of Zoning Appeals. The proposed use is non-conforming as a
storage facility and its accessory
uses are not permitted in General
Retail Business District per Section
343.11(b). (Filed September 2, 2016)
First postponement made at the
request of the Councilman to allow
for time for further review.

POSTPONED FROM
OCTOBER 10, 2016
Calendar No. 16-218: 2061 West 19th
Street (Ward 3)
Urban Investments, owner, proposes to erect a new four story, 3,040
square foot two family house on a
3,200 square foot lot in a B1 MultiFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(a) which states
that the minimum lot width for a
two family dwelling in a “B”: area
district is 50 feet and a 32 foot wide
lot is proposed.
2. Section 355.04(a) which states
that a minimum lot area of 6,000
square feet is required for a two
family dwelling and a lot area of
3,200 square feet is proposed.
3. Section 357.09(b)(2)(C) which
states that in a Multi-Family District no interior side yard on a lot
occupied by a dwelling house shall
be less than five (5) feet in width
for a corner lot, nor less than three
(3) feet in width for an interior lot,
nor shall the aggregate width of
side yards on the same premises be

Calendar No. 16-230: 5720 Franklin
Boulevard
Jim Alves, owner, proposes to
erect a 23' x 41' - 4" three story
frame single family residence with
attached garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

The
following
WITHDRAWN:
None.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

Calendar No. 16-239: 11701 Corlett
Avenue
Darnell Dozier, owner, proposes to
change use from two family residence to a sober living house in a
C1 Multi-Family Residential District.
The following
PONED:

case

was

POST-

Calendar No. 16-236: Flexco Incorporated
2600 Hamilton Avenue. Postponed
to November 14, 2016.
The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, October 17, 2016 and the
decisions
were
adopted
and
approved on Monday, October 24,
2016:

MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
24, 2016 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-228: 5718 Franklin
Boulevard
Jim Alves, owner, proposes to
erect a 23' x 41' three story frame
single
family
residence
with
attached garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-229: 5724 Franklin
Boulevard
Jim Alves, owner, proposes to
erect a 23' x 41' three story frame
single
family
residence
with
attached garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.

1582

The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-195: 2177 Scranton
Road
2177 Scranton LLC., owner, proposes to include one dwelling unit
residence to boutique, warehouse
and operations building for women’s
clothing store in a B3 General
Industry District.
Calendar No. 16-208: 9349 Gaylord
Avenue
Continental Contracting, owner,
proposes to change use from single
family to foster care facility for 8
children in a B1 Two-Family Zoning
District.
Calendar No. 16-234: 2202 West 6th
Street
APJP Properties LLC., owner, proposes to erect an 11' - 4" x 13' - 4"

October 26, 2016
wolmanized wooden open rear porch
to existing single family residence
in a B1 Multi-Family Residential
District.
Calendar No. 16-248: 2054 West 10th
Street
Paul Vandereyke, owner, proposes
to erect a 14' x 20' two story frame
garage addition to proposed single
family residence in a B1 Multi-Family Residential District.

The City Record
Department and obtain all required
Motion
so
in
order.
permits.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
*    *    *

As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:

Docket A-166-16.
RE: Appeal of Midfirst Bank,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises
known
as
3302
Erin
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
ORDER
dated July 28, 2016 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until November 20, 2016 to
obtain all required permits, noting
that failure to meet that date will
result
in
the
property
being
REMANDED immediately; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Maschke
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.

*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-155-16.
RE: Appeal of Edith D. Pace,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
1316
East
85th
Street
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated July 6, 2016 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-155-16 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 2, 2016.

Docket A-167-16.
RE: Appeal of Neil T. Clough,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
7014 Colgate Avenue from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — HAZARDOUS
CONDITIONS, dated July 28, 2016,
and from a VACATE ORDER, dated
July 29, 2016 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-167-16 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 16, 2016.

Calendar No. 16-259: 17625 Grovewood Avenue
Salvation Army, owner, proposes
to erect a 7' x 8' double faced illuminated message center ground sign
7 feet tall and wall signs in a B1
Two-Family Residential District.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
October 19, 2016

*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-161-16.
RE: Appeal of Ashley Cordona,
Owner of the MXD Mixed Uses –
Multiple Uses In One Building Two
& One/half Story Masonry Property,
located on the premises known as
4210 Clark Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated July 20, 2016 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s appeal request for additional time, and to REMAND the
property at this time, to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action; with the understanding
that the Appellant will immediately
submit drawings to the Building

Docket A-168-16.
RE: Appeal of Nadine Bechtel,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
13517 West Avenue from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — GARAGE,
dated July 25, 2016 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 1, 2017 to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for advice, supervision
and any required further action.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Maschke and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.

1583

13
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-169-16.
RE: Appeal of Jondarr Bradshaw,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 5701 Pacific
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS,
dated August 9, 2016 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Notice
was
properly
Violation
issued, and to grant the Appellant
until May 1, 2017 to complete abatement of the violations; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-170-16.
RE: Appeal of Brian A. Drottar,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
17725 Larchwood Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated July 8,
2016 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until December 1, 2016 to
complete abatement of all the landscaping work on the property, and
to maintain the landscaping in first
class condition, and until May 1,
2017 to complete abatement of all
violations on the property; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-171-16.
RE: Appeal of James Delmar,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half Story Masonry Property,
located on the premises known as
17501
Harland
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated August 4, 2016 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).

The City Record

14
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until March 1, 2017 to complete abatement of the violations,
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-172-16.
RE: Appeal of Anna Felix, Owner
of the One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence Two Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 10817 Adeline Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
July 26, 2016 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s appeal request for additional time, noting that the Appellant was not present for the hearing; the property REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-173-16.
RE: Appeal of US Bank N.A.,
Owner of the R-3 Residential – Nontransient Townhomes (Independent
Egress) Two Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
11316
Florian
Avenue
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated July
25, 2013 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action; the docket has been
WITHDRAWN.
*    *    *
Docket A-174-16.
RE: Appeal of Eloise Allen, Owner
of the One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence Two & One/half
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 1211 East
111th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE DAMAGE, dated
August 9, 2016, of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until November 15th, 2016
to obtain all required permits and
until May 1, 2017 to complete abatement of all the violations; the property is REMANDED at this time to

the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-175-16.
RE: Appeal of Abdul Hameed,
Owner of the MXD Mixed Uses –
Multiple Uses In One Building Two
Story Masonry Property, located on
the
premises
known
as
12717
Woodside
Avenue
from
a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated August 10, 2016,
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance
with
the
Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that based
upon the testimony presented, the
fact that the property is open to
weather, and that the Appellant was
not present for the hearing; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
*    *    *
Docket A-176-16.
RE: Appeal of Mountainside Realty Ventures, Owner of the One
Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
404 East 124th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated July 29, 2016 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until November 21st, 2016
to complete abatement of all the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.

October 26, 2016
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s appeal request for addition time; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke Nays: None Absent:
Mr. Bradley
*    *    *
Docket A-178-16.
RE: Appeal of Berardi Properties,
Inc., Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
Story Frame Property, located on
the premises known as 3431 West
94th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated August 5, 2016, of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until March 1, 2017 to complete abatement of the violations on
the
property;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS
FROM SEPTEMBER 7, 2016:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-121-16
A-124-16
payne
A-129-16
A-133-16
Salons
A-134-16
A-136-16
A-137-16
Center
A-138-16

— James R. Billups
— Franklin T. Cham— April C. Kenney
— Rockstar Total Family
— Barbara Clark
— Gretchen Collins
— Dollar Bank Servicing
— Dvorak Family Trust

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.

*    *    *
*    *    *
Docket A-177-16.
RE: Appeal of Jeff Burgett, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 9607 Baltic Road from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated July
21, 2016, of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of

1584

APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM
SEPTEMBER 7, 2016:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Saab approval and Adoption of the
Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
September 7, 2016

The City Record

October 26, 2016
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Approval of the Resolutions from
the September 21st, and October 5th,
2016 Board Meetings will be ADOPTED November 2, 2016.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Approval of the Minutes from the
September 21st, and October 5th,
2016 Board Meetings will be ADOPTED November 2, 2016.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
On August 10, 2016, Cleveland City
Council passed Ordinance No. 826-16
authorizing the submission to the
electors of the City of Cleveland of
a proposal to amend the Charter of
the City of Cleveland by amending
existing Section 115-2, relating to
the Police Review Board. The language that will appear on the ballot for the November 8, 2016 election
is as follows:
ISSUE 33
PROPOSED CHARTER
AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
A majority affirmative vote
is necessary for passage.
Shall Section 115-2 of the Charter
of the City of Cleveland be amended to change the name of the Police
Review Board to Civilian Police
Review Board; to increase the size
of the Board from seven (7) to nine
(9) members, of which five (5) members are to be appointed by the
Mayor, and four (4) appointed by
Council; to limit the terms of the
members to two (2) four-year terms
within 12 years; to provide that at
least one member of the Board shall
be between the ages of 18 and 30
when appointed; to provide that
there shall be at least one (1) member from each police district; to provide that that no member shall be a
current law enforcement officer, or
a current or former employee of the
Division of Police; to provide for
posting of vacancies and application
to fill those vacancies; to have the
Board select the chair and vice-chair
and limit their terms to two (2) consecutive one-year terms each, with
eligibility again after two (2) years;
to provide that the Board’s budget
be separate from that of the Department of Public Safety’s administrative budget, to be overseen by the
administrator and the Board; and to
provide that Board members receive
initial and annual training?
For
more
information,
go
to
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org.
October 12, 2016, October 19, 2016,
October 26, 2016, November 2, 2016.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

15
AT 10:30 A.M. THE DISTRIBUTION
AND
MAINTENANCE
FACILITY,
4600
HARVARD
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OH
44105, IN THE PIPE REPAIR
CONFERENCE ROOM.
October 19, 2016 and October 26, 2016
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
File
No.
140-16
—
Music
Hall
Improvements, Roof Repairs, for
the Division of Architecture and
Site Development, Department of
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 733-14, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 9,
2014.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
IN
THE
SPECIFICATIONS
AMOUNT OF TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDAPRE-BID
MEETING,
TORY
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, AT THE DIVISION OF
ARCHITECTURE
AND
SITE
DEVELOPMENT, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 517A, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 144-16 — Turnout Clothing
- Division of Fire, for the Division of Fire, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Section 135.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER
2,
2016 AT 11:00 A.M. CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
DIVISION
OF
FINANCIAL REPORTING AND
CONTROL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
ROOM
18,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
October 19, 2016 and October 26, 2016
File No. 138-16 — Purchase of Transfer and Disposal of Tires, for the
Division of Waste Collection and
Disposal, Department of Public
Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1442-15, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 7, 2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
AT 11:00A.M. LOCATED AT THE
DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
BUILDING
1,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 139-16 — Ductile Iron Pipe
and Fittings, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016

1585

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11,

2016

File No. 142-16 — Employee Uniforms and Related Items for Airport Rescue and Firefighting, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
AT 10:30 A.M. CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
File No. 143-16 — Labor and Materials
for
Fencing
Repair
and
Installation
(Re-Bid),
for
the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department

The City Record

16
of Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 333-16, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 25, 2016.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
October 19, 2016 and October 26, 2016
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
File No. 141-16 — Labor and Materials for the Materials, Repair and
Installation of Gates, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of
Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 333-16, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 25, 2016.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER
9,
2016 AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND
INTERNATIONAL
HOPKINS
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135.
October 19, 2016 and October 26, 2016

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1206-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution supporting Senate Bill 359 to amend the
Ohio Revised Code to create a
“Down
Syndrome
Awareness”
license plate.
Whereas,
October
is
national
Down Syndrome Awareness month;
and
Whereas, October 12th is Down
Syndrome Awareness Day in the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, every year, one in 790
children in the United States are
born with Down Syndrome; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by theCouncil of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports Senate Bill 359 to amend
the Ohio Revised Code to create a
“Down Syndrome Awareness” license
plate.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to Governor Kasich and all
members of the Ohio legislature.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 17, 2016.
Effective October 19, 2016.

Res. No. 1258-16.
By Council Member McCormack.
An emergency resolution supporting LAND studio’s application to the
Clean Ohio Fund Greenspace Conservation Program for the Irishtown
Bend Conservation and Recreation
Project in the City of Cleveland.
Whereas,
the
State
of
Ohio,
through the Ohio Public Works Commission, administers financial assistance for the preservation of open
spaces, sensitive ecological areas
and stream corridors, through the
Clean Ohio Fund Green Space Conservation Program; and
Whereas, the Irishtown Bend Conservation and Recreation Project is
in complete coordination with and
will help facilitate the stabilization
of
the
Irishtown
Bend
hillside
efforts led by the Port of Cleveland,
as well as provide open space for a
future park, and key trail connections from the Lake Link Trail to
Lake Erie, the Cuyahoga River, and
the Towpath Trail; and
Whereas, LAND studio desires
financial assistance under the Clean
Ohio Fund Green Space Conservation Program to acquire the Irishtown Bend properties for conservation and recreation purposes, for the
Irishtown
Bend
Protection
and
Recreation Project, located in the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by theCouncil of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the application by LAND studio and its partners to the Clean
Ohio Fund Greenspace Conservation
Program for the Irishtown Bend
Conservation and Recreation Project
in the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit a copy
of this resolution to LAND studio.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 17, 2016.
Effective October 19, 2016.

Res. No. 1259-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 12820 Brook
Park Road and patio and repealing
Resolution No. 966-16 objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit
to G L M R, Inc., DBA Secrets, 12820
Brookpark Road and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44130, Permanent Number
2977644 by Resolution No. 966-16,
adopted by the Council on August
10, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

1586

October 26, 2016
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by theCouncil of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit to G
L M R, Inc., DBA Secrets, 12820
Brookpark Road and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44130, Permanent Number
2977644, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 96616, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 17, 2016.
Effective October 19, 2016.

Ord. No. 1555-13.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting
new Sections 351.01 to 351.19 relating to riparian setbacks and wetlands setbacks; and to amend Section 327.99, as amended by Ordinance No. 899-06, passed August 16,
2006, relating to penalties under the
Zoning Code.
Whereas, flooding is a significant
threat to public health and safety
and public and private property in
the City of Cleveland, and riparian
areas and wetlands lessen flood
damage
by
holding
runoff
and
releasing it slowly over time; and,
Whereas, streambank erosion in
the City of Cleveland is a significant threat to public health and
safety and public and private property, and riparian areas and wetlands control runoff and reduces its
erosive force; and,
Whereas, insufficient control of
riparian areas and wetlands can
result in significant damage to
receiving water resources, impairing
the capacity of these resources to
sustain aquatic systems and their
associated aquatic life use designations; and,
Whereas, there is a regional effort
to reduce the flooding and erosion
and to protect water quality, riparian areas and wetlands and to protect
and
enhance
the
water
resources of the City of Cleveland,
and the City of Cleveland recognizes
its obligation as a part of a watershed to reduce flooding and erosion
and to protect water quality by controlling runoff within its borders;
and,
Whereas, to promote public health
and safety and sound economic
development in the City of Cleveland, it is important to provide
homebuilders,
developers,
and
landowners with consistent, technically feasible, and operationally
practical standards for storm water
management; and,
Whereas, Ohio EPA has interpreted Permit No. OHQ00002, effective
January 30, 2009, Part II, §5 to
require
designated
communities,

October 26, 2016
including the City of Cleveland, to
develop a Storm Water Management
Program to address the quality of
storm water runoff during and after
soil disturbing activities through
the use of best management practices such as appropriate policies
and ordinances that provide requirements
and
standards
to
direct
growth to identified areas, protect
sensitive areas such as wetlands
and riparian areas, maintain and/or
increase open space, provide buffers
along sensitive water bodies, minimize impervious surfaces, and minimize disturbance of soils and vegetation; and,
Whereas, Article XVIII, Section 3
of the Ohio Constitution grants
municipalities the legal authority to
adopt rules to abate soil erosion and
water pollution by soil sediments;
and,
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 351.01 to 351.19 to read as follows:
Chapter 351 Riparian
Setbacks and Wetlands Setbacks
Section 351.01 Purpose
(a) It is determined that the system
of wetlands, riparian areas, rivers,
streams, and other natural watercourses within the City contributes to
the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents. The specific purpose and intent of this chapter is to
regulate uses and developments within riparian and wetland areas for the
benefit of the City for the following
reasons:
(1) To establish consistent, technically feasible and operationally practical standards to achieve a level of
storm water quantity and quality control to minimize damage to public and
private property and degradation of
water resources from the impacts of
flooding, erosion and storm water pollution.
(2) To reduce flood impacts by
absorbing peak flows, slowing the
velocity of floodwaters, and regulating base flow.
(3) To reduce urban storm water
pollutants,
including
pollutants
already present in watercourses,
especially during periods of high
flows, through filtration, settlement,
and absorption and transformation of
those pollutants in the riparian and
wetland setback, before the pollutants enter watercourses.
(4) To reduce sediment pollution,
especially from erosion, by preventing unnecessary stripping of vegetation and loss of soil, especially adjacent to water resources and wetlands.
(5) To assist in stabilizing the
banks of watercourses to reduce bank
erosion and the downstream transport of sediments eroded from watercourse banks.
(6) To preserve to the maximum
extent practicable the value of the
natural drainage characteristics in
the City, including on building sites,
minimizing the need for costly engineering solutions to flooding and erosion problems such as the construction, repair, and replacement of
enclosed storm drain systems.

The City Record
(7) To minimize encroachment on
wetlands and watercourse channels
and the need for costly engineering
solutions such as dams, retention
basins, and rip rap armoring, to protect structures and reduce property
damage and threats to the safety of
residents; and contribute to the scenic
beauty and environment of the City
preserving the character of the City,
the quality of life of the residents of
the City, and corresponding property
values.
(8) To reduce the need for costly
maintenance and repairs to roads,
sewage
systems,
embankments,
ditches, water resources, and wetlands, resulting from inadequate
storm water management due to the
loss of riparian areas and wetlands.
(9) To protect and maintain the
receiving water’s or wetland’s physical, chemical, and biological characteristics and, in turn, to maintain its
riparian or wetland functions, benefits and values.
(10) Provide habitat to a wide array
of aquatic organisms and wildlife,
including but not limited to many that
are on Ohio’s Endangered and/or
Threatened Species listings, by maintaining diverse and connected riparian and wetland vegetation.
(11) To reduce the long-term
expense of remedial projects and
maintenance projects needed to
address problems caused by inadequate storm water management and
control.
(b) The following regulations have
been enacted to protect the values,
services and benefits riparian and
wetland areas provide by establishing reasonable management and controls governing structures and uses
within a wetland setback and a riparian setback along designated watercourses in the City.
Section 351.02 Scope, Applicability,
and Activities Requiring A Permit
(a) Applicability and Compliance:
(1) These regulations shall apply
to:
A. All activities, uses and structures on lands and waters that are
within the jurisdiction of the City and
that contain or are adjacent to designated watercourses or wetlands as
defined in these regulations, excepting from all the portion of the Cuyahoga River and the Old River Bed &
Ship Channel extending from Lake
Erie southerly as shown in the City of
Cleveland, Division of Engineering
and Construction, Cuyahoga River
Dock Line Maps (C32) sheets 1
through 3 to its intersection with the
centerline of the Denison Harvard
Bridge right of way as shown on
sheet number 3 of the aforesaid Cuyahoga River Dock Line Maps and the
Lake Erie Waterfront or as otherwise
exempted in this chapter.
B. These regulations shall apply to
property subdivision/property/parcel
split plan approvals, site plan
approvals, and land development plan
approvals in regulated areas under
this chapter.
C. These regulations shall apply to
all building permits, which involve
activities regulated under this chapter.
(2) Activities Regulated By Permit:
All activities in regulated riparian
or wetland areas in this chapter
including: filling; excavating; dredging; clear-cutting; grading; construction; removal of peat, sand or gravel;
alteration of the water level or water

1587

17
table; disturbance of any surface
drainage characteristics, sediment
patterns or flood retention characteristics; or any other alteration or use of
a riparian or wetland area that is not
exempted from the permit requirement under this chapter. Any such
activity shall require a permit from
the Department of Building and Housing. The Department of Building and
Housing will issue no approvals or
permits for activities that do not meet
the standards and criteria in this
chapter or without the applicant’s full
compliance with the terms of this
chapter.
(3) Before any permit or certificate
of occupancy is issued, the Director of
Building and Housing or the Director’s designated representative, shall
examine or cause to be examined the
application, and any plans and plot
plan accompanying the application,
to ascertain whether the proposed
work and use will conform to the provisions of this Chapter, and all other
applicable Codified Ordinances. At
least four copies of site, construction,
and topography plans and elevations
drawn to a measurable scale to the
specifications, required to determine
compliance, are required to be submitted with the application. No permit or
certificate of occupancy shall be
issued unless the proposed work and
use conform to the provisions of all
applicable sections of this Chapter
and the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Section 351.03 Consultation and
Coordination With Other Regulatory
Agencies
(a) In implementing these regulations the Director of Building and
Housing or other City officials may
consult with the local county Soil and
Water
Conservation
District
(SWCD), state and federal agencies
and any other technical experts the
Director deems necessary. Any costs
associated with such consultations
may be assessed to the applicant or
his or her designated representative.
(b) The Director may require that a
permit applicant obtain any other
applicable federal, state, or local regulatory permits needed for a proposed
activity before applying for a permit
under this chapter.
Section 351.04 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
(a) “Approving Authority” means
the official responsible for administering the applicable program(s).
(b) “Best Management Practice
(BMP)” With regard to this chapter,
BMP means any practice or combination of practices that is determined to
be the most effective, practicable
(including technological, economic,
and institutional considerations)
means of preventing or reducing the
amount of pollution generated by nonpoint sources of pollution to a level
compatible with water quality goals.
BMPs may include structural practices, conservation practices and
operation and maintenance procedures.
(c) “Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control (CPESC)”
means a person that has subscribed to
the Code of Ethics and has met the
requirements established by the
CPESC Council of Certified Professional In Erosion and Sediment Control, Inc. to be a Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control.

18
(d) “Channel” means a natural
stream that conveys water, or a ditch
or channel excavated for the natural
flow of water.
(e) “Concentrated Storm Water
Runoff” means surface water runoff
which converges and flows primarily
through water conveyance features
such as swales, gullies, waterways,
channels, or storm sewers, and which
exceeds the maximum specified flow
rates of filters or perimeter controls
intended to control sheet flow.
(f) “Conservation” means the wise
use and management of natural
resources.
(g) “Damaged or Diseased Trees”
means trees that have split trunks,
broken tops, heart rot, or insect or
fungus problems, that will lead to
imminent death or undercut root systems that put the tree in imminent
danger of falling or leaning as a
result of root failure that puts the tree
in imminent danger of falling, or any
other condition that puts the tree in
imminent danger of being uprooted or
falling.
(h)
“Designated
Watercourse”
means a watercourse that is contained within, flows through, or borders the City and meets the criteria
set forth in these regulations.
(i) “Deteriorated Structure” means
a structure which has sustained substantial damage from any origin and
which the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition
would be equal to, or greater than
50% of, the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
(j) “Development Area” means any
tract, lot, or parcel of land, or combination of tracts, lots or parcels of
land, which are in one ownership, or
are contiguous and in diverse ownership, where earth disturbing activity
is to be performed.
(k) “Ditch” means an excavation,
either dug or natural, for the purpose
of drainage or irrigation, and having
intermittent flow.
(l) “Dumping” means the grading,
pushing, piling, throwing, unloading
or placing of soil or other material.
(m) “Earth Disturbing Activity”
means any grading, excavating, filling, or other alteration of the earth’s
surface where natural or man-made
ground cover is destroyed.
(n) “Erosion” means the process by
which the land surface is worn away
by the action of water, wind, ice, or
gravity.
(o) “Existing” means in existence
at the time of the passage of this
chapter and these regulations.
(p) “Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA)” means the
agency with overall responsibility for
administering the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(q) “Grading” means earth disturbing activity such as excavation, stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling, or
any combination thereof.
(r) “Impervious Cover” means any
surface
that
cannot
effectively
absorb or infiltrate water. This
includes, but is not limited to, roads,
streets, parking lots, rooftops, and
sidewalks.
(s) “Intermittent Stream” means a
natural channel that may have some
water in pools, but where surface
flows are non-existent or interstitial
(flowing through sand and gravel in
stream beds) for periods of one week
or more during typical summer
months.

The City Record
(t) “Larger Common Plan of Development or Sale” means a contiguous
area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities may be
taking place at different times on different schedules under one plan.
(u) “Landslide” means the rapid
mass movement of soil and rock material downhill under the influence of
gravity in which the movement of the
soil mass occurs along an interior surface of sliding.
(v) “Local County SWCD” means
the Cuyahoga County Soil and Water
Conservation District.
(w) “National Wetlands Inventory
Map” means wetland maps that were
created by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service and the U.S. Department of
Interior.
(x) “Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS)” means an
agency of the United States Department of Agriculture, formerly known
as the Soil Conservation Service
(SCS).
(y) “NPDES Permit” means a
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit issued by Ohio
EPA under the authority of the
USEPA, and derived from the Federal
Clean Water Act.
(z) “Noxious Weed” means any
plant species defined by the Ohio
Department of Agriculture as a “noxious weed” and listed as such by the
Department. For the purposes of this
regulation, the most recent version of
this list at the time of application of
these regulations shall prevail.
(aa) “Ohio EPA” means the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency.
(bb) Ohio Wetlands Inventory Map”
means wetland maps that were created by the Natural Resources Conservation Service, USDA, and the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources.
(cc) “Ordinary High Water Mark”
means the point of the bank or shore
up to which the presence and action of
surface water is so continuous as to
leave a distinctive mark by erosion,
destruction or prevention of woody
terrestrial vegetation, predominance
of aquatic vegetation, or other easily
recognized characteristic.
(dd) “Outfall” means an area where
water flows from a structure such as
a conduit, storm sewer, improved
channel or drain, and the area immediately beyond the structure which is
impacted by the velocity of flow in
the structure.
(ee) “Person” means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint
venture, agency, unincorporated association, municipal corporation, township, county, state agency, the federal
government, or any combination
thereof.
(ff) “Perennial Stream” means a
natural channel that contains water
throughout the year, except possibly
during periods of extreme drought.
(gg)
“Professional
Engineer”
means a person registered in the State
of Ohio as a Professional Engineer,
with specific education and experience in water resources engineering,
acting in strict conformance with the
Code of Ethics of the Ohio Board of
Registration for Engineers and Surveyors.
(hh) “Qualified Forester” means
any forester employed by the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources,
Division of Forestry, or any person
attaining the credential of Certified
Forester as conferred by the Society
of American Foresters.

1588

October 26, 2016
(ii) “Qualified Wetland Professional” means an individual qualified and
competent in the areas of botany,
hydric soils, and wetland hydrology,
and is acceptable to the Director of
Building and Housing as meeting
these qualifications.
(jj) “Redevelopment” means the
demolition or removal of existing
structures or land uses and construction of new ones.
(kk) “Retention Basin” means a
storm water management pond that
maintains a permanent pool of water.
These storm water management
ponds include a properly engineered/designed volume dedicated to
the temporary storage and slow
release of runoff waters.
(ll) “Riparian Area” means the area
adjacent to watercourses that if naturally vegetated and/or appropriately
revegetated and appropriately sized,
limits erosion, reduces flood flows,
and/or filters and settles out runoff
pollutants, or which performs other
functions consistent with the purposes of these regulations.
(mm) “Riparian Setback” means
those lands within the City that are
alongside streams, and which fall
within the area defined by the criteria
set forth in these regulations.
(nn) “Sediment” means solid material, both mineral and organic, that is
in suspension, is being transported, or
has been moved from its site of origin
by wind, water, gravity or ice, and has
come to rest on the earth’s surface
either on dry land or in a body of
water.
(oo) “Sediment Control” means the
limiting of sediment being transported, by controlling erosion or detaining sediment-laden water, and allowing the sediment to settle out.
(pp) “Sediment Pollution” means
failure to use management or conservation practices to control wind or
water erosion of the soil and to minimize the degradation of water
resources by soil sediment in conjunction with land grading, excavating,
filling, or other soil disturbing activities on land used or being developed
for commercial, industrial, residential, or other purposes.
(qq) “Sensitive Area” means an
area or water resource that requires
special management because of its
susceptibility to sediment pollution or
because of its importance to the wellbeing of the surrounding communities, region, or the state and includes,
but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Ponds, wetlands or small lakes
with less than five acres of surface
area;
(2) Small streams with gradients
less than ten feet per mile with average annual flows of less than 3.5 feet
per second containing sand or gravel
bottoms.
(3) Drainage areas of a locally designated or an Ohio designated Scenic
River.
(4) Riparian and wetland areas.
(rr) “Sheet Flow” means water
runoff in a thin uniform layer or rills
and which is of a small enough quantity to be treated by sediment barriers.
(ss) “Silviculture” means the theory
and practice of controlling forest
establishment,
composition
and
growth.
(tt) “Slip” means a landslide as
defined under “Landslides.”
(uu) “Sloughing” means a slip or
downward movement of an extended

October 26, 2016
layer of soil resulting from the undermining action of water or the earth
disturbing activity of man.
(vv) “Soil” means unconsolidated
erodible earth material consisting of
minerals and/or organics.
(ww) “Soil Conservation Service,
USDA” means the federal agency now
titled the “Natural Resources Conservation Service,” which is an agency of
the United States Department of Agriculture.
(xx) “Soil Disturbing Activity”
means clearing, grading, excavating,
filling, or other alteration of the
earth’s surface where natural or
human
made
ground
cover
is
destroyed and which may result in, or
contribute to, soil erosion and sediment pollution.
(yy) “Soil Erosion and Sediment
Control” means a written and/or
drawn soil erosion and sediment pollution control plan to minimize erosion and prevent off-site sedimentation throughout all earth disturbing
activities on a development area.
(zz) “Soil Erosion and Sediment
Control Practices” means conservation measures used to control sediment pollution and includes structural practices, vegetative practices and
management techniques.
(aaa) “Soil Survey” means the official soil survey produced by the Natural Resources Conservation Service,
USDA in cooperation with the Division of Soil and Water Conservation,
ODNR and the local Board of County
Commissioners.
(bbb) “Storm Water Conveyance
System” means all storm sewers,
channels, streams, ponds, lakes, etc.,
used for conveying concentrated
storm water runoff, or for storing
storm water runoff.
(ccc) “Stream” means a body of
water running or flowing on the
earth’s surface, or a channel in which
such flow occurs. Flow may be seasonally intermittent.
(ddd) “Substantial Damage” means
damage of any origin sustained by a
structure and the cost of restoring the
structure to its before damaged condition would be equal to, or greater
than, 50% of the market value of the
structure
before
the
damage
occurred.
(eee) “USEPA” means the United
States
Environmental
Protection
Agency.
(fff) “100-Year Floodplain” means
any land susceptible to being inundated by water from a base flood. The
base flood is the flood that has a one
percent (1%) or greater chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. For the purposes of this
regulation, the 100-year floodplain
shall be defined by FEMA or a sitespecific Floodplain Delineation in
conformance with standard engineering practices and the standards and
criteria in the City’s Floodplain Management Ordinance at Chapter 3167.
(ggg) “Watercourse” means any
natural, perennial, or intermittent
lake, pond, channel, stream, river,
creek or brook with a defined bed and
bank or shore.
(hhh) “Water Resources” means all
streams, lakes, ponds, wetlands,
water courses, waterways, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of surface water, either
natural or artificial, which are situated wholly or partly within, or border
upon this state, or are within its jurisdiction, except those private waters
that do not combine or affect a junction with natural surface waters.

The City Record
(iii) “Wetland” means those areas
that are inundated or saturated by
surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support,
and that under normal circumstances
do support, a prevalence of vegetation
typically adapted for life in saturated
soil conditions. Wetlands generally
includes, but are not limited to lands
and waters meeting this definition
and otherwise often referred to as
swamps, marshes, bogs, wetland
meadows, ephemeral and tributary
streams, vernal pools, reservoirs,
ponds, lakes and the land under water
bodies.
(jjj) “Wetland, Ohio EPA Category
2 Wetlands” means those wetlands
classified by the Ohio EPA as Category 2 wetlands under OAC 3745-1-54
(C)(2), or current equivalent Ohio
EPA classification, under generally
accepted wetland functional assessment methods acceptable to the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers and Ohio
EPA at the time of application of this
regulation.
(kkk) “Wetland, Ohio EPA Category 3 Wetlands” means those wetlands
classified by the Ohio EPA as Category 3 wetlands under OAC 3745-154(C)(3), or current equivalent Ohio
EPA classification, under generally
accepted wetland functional assessment methods acceptable to the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers and Ohio
EPA at the time of application of this
regulation.
(lll) “Wetland Setback” means
those lands within the City that fall
within the area defined by the criteria
set forth in these regulations.
(mmm) “Winter” means October 1st
to April 1st of each year.
Section 351.05 Establishment of
Designated Watercourses and Riparian Setbacks
(a) Designated watercourses shall
include those watercourses meeting
any one of the following criteria:
(1) All watercourses draining an
area greater than square mile, or
(2) All watercourses draining an
area less than square mile and having a defined bed and bank.
(3) In determining if watercourses
have a defined bed and bank, the City
may consult with a representative of
the local county SWCD or other technical experts as necessary.
(b) Riparian setbacks on designated watercourses are established as
follows:
(1) A minimum of 300 feet on each
side of all watercourses draining an
area greater than 300 square miles.
(2) A minimum of 120 feet on each
side of all watercourses draining an
area greater than 20 square miles and
up to and including 300 square miles.
(3) A minimum of 75 feet on each
side of all watercourses draining an
area greater than one half square
mile and up to and including 20
square miles.
(4) A minimum of 25 feet on each
side of all watercourses draining an
area less than one half square mile
and having a defined bed and bank as
determined above.
(c) Riparian Setback Map:
(1) The City shall use the map
“Water Features of the City of Cleveland” produced by the City Planning
Commission as the map identifying
designated watercourses and their
riparian setbacks. Nothing in this
chapter shall prohibit the City from
amending the map from time to time
as may be necessary.

1589

19
(2) At the time of application of this
regulation, if any discrepancy is
found between the map “Water Features of the City of Cleveland” and the
criteria for designated watercourses,
riparian setbacks, or wetland setbacks as set forth in these regulations, the criteria set forth in these
regulations shall prevail.
(3) In reviewing and interpreting
the maps, the City may consult with a
representative of the local county
SWCD and other technical experts as
necessary.
(d) The following conditions shall
apply in riparian and wetland setbacks:
(1) Riparian and wetland setbacks
shall be measured in a perpendicular
and horizontal direction outward
from the ordinary high water mark of
each designated watercourse and
defined wetland boundary.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in
this regulation, riparian and wetland
setbacks shall be preserved in their
natural state, except that non-conforming structures and non-conforming uses existing at the time of passage of this regulation may be continued in their existing state as determined in the these regulations. Riparian setbacks shall be established and
marked in the field prior to any soil
disturbing or land clearing activities.
(3) Where the 100-year floodplain is
wider than a riparian setback on
either or both sides of a designated
watercourse, the minimum riparian
setback shall be extended to the outer
edge of the 100-year floodplain. The
100-year floodplain shall be defined
by FEMA and federal floodplain regulations and the City’s Flood Plain
Management Ordinances at Chapter
3167.
(4) Where a wetland is identified
within a minimum riparian setback,
the minimum riparian setback width
shall be extended to the outermost
boundary of the wetland. In addition,
wetlands shall be protected to the
extent detailed in these regulations.
(5) Wetlands shall be delineated by
a site survey approved by the City
using delineation protocols accepted
by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
and the Ohio EPA at the time an application is made under this regulation.
If a conflict exists between the delineation protocols of these two agencies, the delineation protocol that
results in the most inclusive area of
wetland shall apply. Any costs associated with reviewing these delineations may be assessed by the City to
the applicant.
(e) The applicant or his or her designated
representative
shall
be
responsible for delineating riparian
and wetland setbacks, including any
expansions
or
modifications
as
required by these regulations, and
identifying these setbacks on all
property subdivision/property/parcel
splits, commercial development or
other land development plans, and/or
building permit applications submitted to the City. This delineation may
be done by a metes and bounds, or
higher level survey and shall be subject to review and approval by the
City. As a result of this review, the
City may consult with a representative of the local county SWCD or other
technical experts as necessary.
(f) Prior to any land clearing or soil
disturbing activity, riparian and wetland setbacks shall be clearly delineated on site by the applicant or his or
her designated representative, and

20
the delineation shall be maintained
throughout soil disturbing activities.
(g) No approvals or subdivision
plan approval, site plan approval, nor
land development plan approval shall
be issued by the City prior to on-site
delineation of riparian and wetland
setbacks in conformance with these
regulations. No building permits that
include land clearing or soil disturbing activities shall be issued by the
City prior to delineation of riparian
and wetland setbacks in conformance
with these regulations.
(h) Upon completion of an approved
property subdivision/property/parcel
split, land development, or other
improvement, riparian and wetland
setbacks shall be permanently recorded on the plat records of the City.
Section 351.06 Establishment of
Wetland Setbacks
Wetland setbacks are established
as follows:
(a) A minimum of 120 feet surrounding and including all Ohio EPA
Category 3 Wetlands, or current
equivalent Ohio EPA classification.
(b) A minimum of 75 feet surrounding and including all Ohio EPA Category 2 Wetlands, or current equivalent Ohio EPA classification.
Section 351.07 Procedure for Wetland Setbacks
(a) No change to parcel boundaries
or land use change:
(1) Upon filing a request for a
building permit that does not involve
changing of any parcel boundaries or
changes in land use, the applicant
will check for indicators of wetlands
on the National Wetlands Inventory
maps, and Ohio Wetlands Inventory
map, and the Cuyahoga County Wetlands Inventory (if applicable). A
photocopy of the applicable section of
each map will be attached to the permit application.
(2) If a potential wetland is shown
on any of the maps or if there is reason for the City to believe that an
unmapped wetland exists on or within 120 feet of the project site, the
applicant will retain a qualified wetland professional to evaluate the proposed project site for wetlands or wetland buffer areas under this chapter.
If no wetland or wetland buffer areas
are found, the applicant shall submit
a letter from the qualified wetland
professional with the preliminary
plat or permit application verifying
his or her negative findings.
(b) New residential or commercial
or other type development and projects involving a change to parcel
boundaries or a land use change:
Upon filing a request for approval
of a preliminary plat or building permit for new representative shall
ensure that all wetlands are identified and wetland setbacks are delineated. The applicant shall check for
indicators of wetland on the National
Wetlands Inventory maps, and Ohio
Wetlands Inventory map, and the
Cuyahoga County Wetlands Inventory (if applicable). If a potential wetland is shown on any of the maps or if
there is any other reason for the City
to believe that an unmapped wetland
exists on or within 120 feet of the project site, the applicant shall retain a
qualified wetland professional to survey the proposed development site for
wetlands or wetland buffer areas
under this chapter. If no wetlands are
found, the applicant or his or her representative shall retain a qualified

The City Record
wetland professional to survey the
proposed development site for wetlands. If no wetlands are found, the
applicant or his or her designated representative shall submit a letter with
the preliminary plat or permit application verifying that a qualified wetland professional has surveyed the
site and found no wetlands. If wetlands are found, the following procedures shall be followed:
(1) A qualified wetland professional, acceptable to the Director of Building and Housing, shall determine the
presence of Ohio EPA Category 2 or 3
wetlands (or current equivalent Ohio
EPA classification) on the proposed
development site using the latest version of the Ohio Rapid Assessment
Method
for
wetland
evaluation
approved at the time of application of
this regulation. Acceptance of this
determination shall be subject to
approval by the Director of Building
and Housing.
(2) If Ohio EPA Category 2 or 3 wetlands (or current equivalent Ohio
EPA classification) are located on
the proposed development site, the
applicant or his or her designated representative shall delineate these wetlands and the wetland setback in conformance with these regulations. The
applicant or his or her designated representative shall identify all delineated wetlands and their associated setbacks
on
all
property
subdivision/property/parcel
split
plans,
land
development
plans,
and/or permit applications submitted
to the City.
(c) Wetlands shall be delineated by
a site survey, approved by the City,
using delineation protocols accepted
by the US Army Corps of Engineers
and the Ohio EPA at the time of application of this regulation. If conflict
exists between the delineation protocols of these two agencies, the delineation protocol that results in the
most inclusive area of wetland shall
apply.
(d) Wetland setbacks shall be
delineated through a metes and
bounds, or higher level, survey subject to approval by the City.
(e) Prior to any soil or vegetation
disturbing activity, the applicant or
his or her designated representative
shall delineate wetland setbacks on
the development site in such a way
that they can be clearly viewed, and
such delineation shall be maintained
throughout construction.
(f) No approvals or permits shall be
issued by the City prior to delineation
of wetland setbacks in conformance
with this regulation.
(g)
Upon
completion
of
an
approved property subdivision/property/parcel split, commercial development or other land development or
improvement, riparian and wetland
setbacks shall be permanently recorded on the plat records for the City and
shall be maintained as open space
thereafter through a permanent conservation easement. A third party, not
the landowner or permittee or the
City, which is allowed by state law,
shall be given the conservation easement. If no third party will accept the
conservation easement, the City shall
accept it and protect it in perpetuity.
Section 351.08 Uses Permitted in
Riparian and Wetland Setbacks
(a) By-Right Uses Without A Permit: No use permitted under these regulations shall be construed as allowing public trespass on privately held

1590

October 26, 2016
lands. Open space uses that are passive in character shall be permitted in
riparian
and
wetland
setbacks,
including the following:
(1) Recreational Activity. Passive
recreational use activity, as otherwise legally permitted by federal,
state, and local laws, such as hiking,
swimming, fishing, hunting, picnicking, and similar uses.
(2) Removal of damaged or diseased trees and control of noxious
weeds if the control does not involve
drainage or fill.
(3) Revegetation and/or Reforestation. Riparian and wetland setbacks
may be revegetated, enhanced or
restored. Any revegetation must be
performed with non-invasive plant
species. Refer to the Ohio Invasive
Plant Species list created by the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources to
determine invasive plant species
undesirable for revegetation, reforestation, or restoration of riparian
areas.
(4) Conservation of soil, vegetation, water, fish, and wildlife consistent with the purposes of this chapter
that does not involve hydrologic modification or fill.
(5) Maintenance of lawns, gardens
and landscaping: Lawns, gardens and
landscaping that existed at the time
this chapter was enacted, may be
maintained as long as they are not
increased in size to further encroach
onto the riparian area, wetland or
watercourse. In that case, trees,
shrubbery and other non-lawn wood
vegetation in the riparian or wetland
setback must be maintained to the
extent practicable to reduce the
impact to the riparian area, wetland
or watercourse.
(b) By-Right Uses With A Permit:
(1) Streambank Stabilization and
Erosion Control Measures. Any activity not prohibited by the regulations
that also involves streambank stabilization and erosion control measures
may be performed in regulated areas
as long as it is conducted under the
standards and specifications in the
current edition of Ohio’s Rainwater
and Land Development manual or
other standards acceptable to Ohio
EPA.
(2) Crossings. Crossings of designated watercourses and through
riparian setbacks or wetland setbacks by publicly and privately
owned roads, drives, sewer and/or
water lines and public and private
utility transmission lines shall only
be allowed upon approval of a Crossing Plan by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. Such crossings
shall minimize disturbance in riparian setbacks, wetland setbacks, and
watercourse substrate and shall mitigate any necessary disturbances. Soil
erosive materials will not be used in
making stream crossings.
(3) Construction of Fencing. Construction of fencing shall be allowed
with the condition that reasonable
efforts be taken to minimize the
destruction of existing vegetation,
provided that the fence does not
impede stream or flood flow, and the
disturbed area is replanted to the natural or preexisting conditions before
the addition of the fence, as approved
by the Director of Building and Housing.
Section 351.09 Uses Prohibited in
Riparian and Wetland Setbacks
Any use not authorized under this
chapter shall be prohibited in riparian and wetland setbacks. By way of

October 26, 2016
example, the following uses are
specifically prohibited; however, prohibited uses are not limited to those
examples listed here:
(a) Construction. There shall be no
structures of any kind.
(b) Dredging or Dumping. There
shall be no drilling, filling, dredging,
or dumping of soil, spoils, liquid, or
solid materials, except for non-commercial composting of uncontaminated natural materials, and except as
permitted under this chapter.
(c) Roads or Driveways. There
shall be no roads or driveways permitted in riparian and/or wetland setback area, except as permitted under
this chapter.
(d) Motorized Vehicles. There shall
be no use of motorized vehicles,
except as permitted under this chapter.
(e) Disturbance of Natural Vegetation. There shall be no disturbance,
including mowing, of the natural vegetation, except for conservation maintenance necessary to control noxious
weeds; for plantings that are consistent with this regulation; for disturbances that are approved under this
chapter; and for the passive enjoyment, access, and maintenance of
landscaping or lawns existing at the
time of passage of this regulation as
provided in the chapter.
(f) Parking Lots. There shall be no
parking lots or other human-made
impervious cover, except as permitted
under this chapter.
(g) New Surface and/or Subsurface
Sewage Disposal or Treatment Areas.
Riparian and wetland setbacks shall
not be used for the disposal or treatment of sewage except under local
county Board of Health regulations in
effect at the time of application of
this regulation.
(h) Crossings. Crossings of designated riparian and wetland setbacks
by publicly and privately owned
sewer and/or water lines and small
public and small private utility transmission lines in accordance with a
permit or regulatory exemption
issued by, or under the regulations of,
the US Army Corps of Engineers and
the Ohio EPA.
(i) Other permits and approvals.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as exempting any person from
obtaining other permits by other
agencies that may be required, including permits from the US Army Corps
of Engineers and/or the Ohio EPA
under the federal and state Clean
Water Acts.
Section
351.10
Non-Conforming
Structures or Uses in Riparian and
Wetland Setbacks
(a) A non-conforming use within a
riparian and wetland setback that is
in existence at the time of passage of
this regulation and that is not otherwise permitted under these regulations, may be continued. However, the
use shall not be changed or enlarged
unless it is changed to a use permitted
under these regulations.
(b) A non-conforming structure
within a riparian or wetland setback
that is in existence at the time of passage of this regulation and that is not
otherwise permitted under these regulations, may be continued, but shall
not have the existing building footprint
or
roofline
expanded
or
enlarged.
(c) A non-conforming structure or
use or deteriorated structure within a
riparian and wetland setback that is

The City Record
in existence at the time of passage of
this regulation and that is discontinued, terminated, or abandoned for a
period of six (6) months or more, may
not be revived, restored, or re-established. This section shall not apply to
a structure that is vacant and that is
not subject to condemnation orders by
the Director of Building and Housing
unless the vacant structure has been
destroyed or damaged for more than
50% of its value by flooding, wind,
fire, or other natural or man-made
force. This section shall also not prohibit ordinary repairs to a residence
or residential accessory building that
are not in conflict with other provisions of this chapter.
(d) In the case of a non-conforming
structure within a riparian or wetland setback, the City will allow a ten
(10) foot maintenance access zone
measured perpendicular to the structure, to temporarily extend further
into the setback as long as disturbance to existing vegetation is minimized and vegetation is restored to
the pre-existing state, as near as practical, upon completion. If any soil disturbance in a wetland will occur as
part of any such maintenance activity, a permit from the U. S. Army Corps
of Engineers or the Ohio EPA, as
appropriate, must be submitted prior
to the onset of the soil disturbing
activity.
(e) In the case of a non-conforming
residential structure, the Director of
Building and Housing may allow
minor upgrades to the structure that
extend further into the riparian setback, such as awnings and pervious
decks/patios, provided the modifications do not extend more than ten (10)
feet further toward the watercourse
than the original foundation of the
structure existing at the time of passage of this regulation, and further
provided that the modification will
not impair the function of the riparian
zone or wetland nor destabilize any
slope nor stream bank, as determined
by the Director of Building and Housing.
Section 351.11 Variances within
Riparian and Wetland Setbacks
(a) The Board of Zoning Appeals
may grant a variance from this regulation as provided in these codified
ordinances. In determining whether
there is unnecessary hardship or practical difficulty to justify the granting
of a variance, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall consider the potential
harm to, or reduction in the functions
of, the riparian area or wetland area
that may be caused by a proposed
structure or use.
(b) In making a variance determination, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall consider the following:
(1) Varying the front, rear and side
yard setback before the riparian and
wetland setbacks are varied.
(2) Variances should not be granted for asphalt or concrete paving in
the riparian and wetland setbacks in
any situation where gravel or porous
pavement (i.e., porous pavers, and
similar products) will do the job.
(c) In making a variance determination, the Board of Zoning Appeals
may consider the following:
(1) A parcel existing at the time of
enactment of this chapter is made
unbuildable.
(2) The soil type and natural vegetation of the parcel, as well as the percentage of the parcel that is in the 100year floodplain. The standards and

1591

21
criteria for granting variances in the
City’s Flood Plain Management Ordinances at Chapter 3167 may be used
as guidance.
(3) The extent to which the requested variance impairs the flood control,
soil erosion control, sediment control,
water quality protection, ecological
functions, or other functions of the
riparian area or wetland area. This
determination shall be based on sufficient technical and scientific data.
(4) The degree of hardship with
respect to the use of the property or
the degree of practical difficulty with
respect to maintaining the setback as
established in this chapter placed on
the landowner, and the availability of
alternatives to the proposed structure
or use.
(5) Soil disturbing activities permitted in a riparian setback areas or
wetland setback areas through variances should be controlled in order to
minimize clearing to the maximum
extent possible, and must include
Best Management Practices necessary to minimize soil erosion and
maximize sediment control.
(6) The presence of significant
impervious cover, or smooth vegetation such as maintained lawns, in or
near the riparian setback areas or
wetland setback areas that compromises the benefits of the riparian setback areas or wetland setbacks areas
received by the City.
(7) Whether the benefit of reduction of storm water infiltration into
the soil in wetland areas will be lost.
(8) If the request is for an aboveground fence, whether it increases
the existing area of mowed grass or
lawn.
(9) Whether parking needs can be
modified before varying the riparian
setback.
(10) Whether the building shape,
size or design can be modified to
avoid or minimize intrusion into the
riparian setback.
(11) In the case of a lot made
unbuildable by this regulation, the
minimum variance needed to make it
buildable for an appropriately-sized
and compatibly-designed structure,
while following the guidance provided in this section.
(12) Whether the variance will
increase the likelihood of flood or erosion damage to either the applicant’s
property or to other properties.
(13) Culverting of watercourses
should be avoided.
(14) Whether the variance will
result in the need for artificial slope
or bank stabilization measures that
could interfere with the function of
the riparian or wetland zone.
Section 351.12 Mitigation
All riparian or wetland restoration,
creation and/or enhancement projects required under this chapter
either as a permit condition or as a
result of an enforcement action shall
follow a mitigation plan prepared by
a qualified professional and approved
by the Director of Building and Housing. The applicant or violator shall
receive written approval of the mitigation plan by the Director of Building and Housing prior to commencement of any wetland area restoration,
creation or enhancement activity. To
realize preservation goals, the City
will use the following methods of
riparian or wetland impact mitigation in order of preference:
(a) The applicant shall avoid all
impacts that degrade the functions

The City Record

22
and value of the wetland. Unless otherwise provided in this chapter if
alteration to the area is unavoidable,
all adverse impacts to the area and
associated buffer resulting from a
development proposal shall be mitigated under an approved wetland
report and an approved mitigation
plan.
(b) Mitigation shall be in-kind and
onsite, when possible, and sufficient
to maintain the functions and values
of the riparian/wetland area.
(c) Mitigation shall not be implemented until after the Director of
Building and Housing or his designated authority has approved the
appropriate wetland report and mitigation plan.
(d) Mitigation measures. Mitigation shall achieve equivalent or
greater biological and habitat functions as existed in wetland prior to
mitigation. Applicants shall demonstrate that all reasonable efforts have
been examined with the intent to
avoid and minimize impacts to these
areas. When an alteration is proposed, such alteration shall be avoided, minimized, or compensated for in
the following order of preference:
(1) Avoid impact altogether by not
taking a certain action or parts of an
action;
(2) Minimize impact by limiting the
degree or magnitude of the action by
project redesign, relocation, timing
changes, or technological applications;
(3) Rectifying the impacts to wetlands, frequently flooded areas, and
habitat conservation areas by repairing, rehabilitating, or restoring the
affected environment to conditions
equal to or higher quality than at the
time of initiation of the project;
(4) Restoring, replacing, or enhancing the wetland on site of the project;
(5) Restoring, replacing, or enhancing degraded riparian corridors/wetlands in the same sub-basin;
(6) Preserving high quality wetlands that are under eminent threat;
(7) Reduce or eliminate the impact
over time by prevention and maintenance operations during the life of
the actions;
(8) Compensate for the impact by
replacing, enhancing or providing
substitute resources or environments;
(9) All mitigation efforts will be
monitored and remedial action taken
if necessary
(10) Mitigation actions shall be conducted within the same sub-drainage
basin and on the impacted site.
Section 351.13 Monitoring Program
The mitigation plan shall include a
program for monitoring construction,
and for assessing a completed project
by a riparian corridor/wetland specialist. A protocol for the schedule of
monitoring and reporting shall be
implemented that verify the performance standards are being met. The
period of monitoring shall be adequate to verify that the performance
goals and objectives are being met
and will vary at the discretion of the
Director of Building and Housing, or
his designated authority. Monitoring
would never be less than three years.
Section 351.14 Financial Guarantees
The mitigation plan shall include
financial guarantees, if necessary, to
ensure that the mitigation plan is
fully implemented. The requirement
of financial guarantees is at the discretion of the Director of Building

and Housing based on the size, complexity, and cost of the mitigation
project. If financial guarantees are
required they shall be of sufficient
funding to ensure mitigation, maintenance, and monitoring.
Section 351.15 Boundary Interpretation and Appeals Procedure
Any applicant seeking a variance
to the regulations or criteria under
this chapter or any appeal of an
administrative order made under this
chapter may request the variance or
make an appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals. The following procedures shall apply:
(a) Before filing the request or
appeal, when an applicant or his or
her designated representative disputes the boundary of a riparian or
wetland setback or the ordinary high
water mark of a watercourse, the
applicant or his or her designated representative shall submit documentation to the Director of Building and
Housing which describes the boundary, the applicant’s proposed boundary, and justification for the proposed
boundary change.
(b) The Department of Building
and Housing shall evaluate this documentation and shall make a determination within sixty (60) days. If during this evaluation the Department of
Building and Housing requires further information, it may be required
of the applicant. In the event that the
Department of Building and Housing
requests such additional information,
the sixty (60) day period for determination shall be postponed until the
applicant provides the information.
(c) If the applicant does not receive
the determination regarding the
boundary dispute within 60 days, the
applicant’s submission shall be considered denied and the denial may be
appealed to the Board of Zoning
Appeals within 30 days. In the event
the applicant receives an adverse
determination, that determination
may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals within 30 days.
Section 351.16 Inspection of Riparian and Wetland Setback
The delineation of riparian setbacks or wetland setbacks may be
inspected by the City, as follows:
(a) Prior to any soil disturbing
activities authorized by the City for a
property subdivision/property/parcel
split, land development plan, and/or
building permit. The applicant or his
or her designated representative
shall provide the Department of
Building and Housing with at least
five (5) working days’ notice under
this chapter prior to starting soil disturbing or land clearing activities.
(b) Prior to starting any of the
activities authorized by this chapter,
the applicant or his or her designated
representative shall provide the
Department of Building and Housing
with at least five (5) working days’
notice prior to starting the activities.
(c) Any time evidence is brought to
the attention of the City that uses or
structures are occurring that may reasonably be expected to violate the provisions of these regulations.
Section 351.17 Disclaimer of Liability
Neither submission of a plan under
the provisions of this chapter, nor
compliance with the provisions of
these regulations, shall relieve any
person or entity from responsibility

1592

October 26, 2016
for damage to any person or property
that is otherwise imposed by law.
Section 351.18 Conflicts, Severability, Nuisances & Responsibility
(a) Where this chapter imposes a
greater restriction upon land than is
imposed or required by other City provisions of law, ordinance, contract or
deed, the provisions of this chapter
shall prevail.
(b) If a court of competent jurisdiction declares any clause, section, or
provision of these regulations invalid
or unconstitutional, the validity of
the remainder shall not be affected.
(c) These regulations shall not be
construed as authorizing any person
to maintain a private or public nuisance on his or her property. Compliance with the provisions of this regulation shall not be a defense in any
action to abate the nuisance.
(d) Failure of the City to observe or
recognize hazardous or unsightly
conditions or to recommend corrective measures shall not relieve the
owner from the responsibility for the
condition or damage resulting there
from, and shall not result in the City,
its officers, employees, or agents
being responsible for any condition or
damage resulting there from.
Section 351.19 Authority to Stop
Work
Upon notice from the Director of
Building and Housing, or designated
representative, that work is being
performed contrary to this regulation,
such work shall immediately stop.
The notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner or person
responsible for the development area,
or person performing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which
the work may be resumed; provided,
however, in instances where immediate action is deemed necessary for
public safety or the public interest,
the Director of Building and Housing
may require that work be stopped
upon verbal order pending issuance
of the written order.
Section 2. That Section 327.99 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 899-06, passed August 16, 2006, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 327.99 Penalty
(a) Except as provided in divisions
(c) and (d) below, any person, firm or
corporation who violates any of the
provisions of this Zoning Code or who
fails to comply shall, for each and
every violation or failure, be fined not
less
than
one
hundred
dollars
($100.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not
less than ten (10) days, nor more than
ninety (90) days, or both. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which such violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist under notification thereof.
(b) The imposition of any penalty
under this division shall not be construed as excusing or permitting the
continuance of any violation, and
when the violation constitutes a nuisance, any owner of the premises,
whether the owner at the time the violation was committed or his or her
assignee, shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this Zoning Code each
day he or she permits such nuisance
to continue unabated after due notice
from the Director of Building and
Housing of the existence of such nuisance.

October 26, 2016
(c) Any person, firm, or corporation
who violates any provision of Section
337.16 of this Zoning Code or who fails
to comply shall, for each and every
violation or failure, be fined not less
than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) which fine shall not
be reduced, waived or suspended. In
addition, imprisonment for not less
than ten (10) days nor more than ninety (90) days may be imposed. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which such
violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist after notification
thereof.
(d) Whoever violates Sections
337.23, 347.02, 347.10, 349.02, 349.04,
349.13, 350.19, 357.13, or, 357.14 or Section 347.08 as a first offense of that
section shall be fined not more than
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In
addition to any other method of
enforcement provided for in this chapter, the above listed minor misdemeanors may be enforced by the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
(e) Whoever violates Section 347.08
as a second offense of that section
shall be fined not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30)
days, or both. Whoever violates Section 347.08 as a third or subsequent
offense of that section shall be fined
not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more
than six (6) months, or both.
(f) Whoever violates or fails to
comply with any provision of Chapter
351 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
Section 3. That existing Section
327.99 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 899-06, passed August
16, 2006, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 17, 2016.
Effective October 19, 2016.

Ord. No. 1019-16.
By Council Members Brady and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1, 3, 4, and 5 of Ordinance No.
578-16, passed June 6, 2016; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new
Sections 5a and 7a relating to appropriating bond funds for ongoing
sewer-related projects.

The City Record
Whereas, certain contracts for public improvement by requirement contracts exist or are in various stages of
completion previously authorized by
Codified Ordinance Nos. 129.291 and
129.292 are now eligible to use bond
funds from the recent bond issue; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1, 3, 4 and 5
of Ordinance No. 578-16, passed June 6,
2016, are amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That Council appropriates up to $4,000,000 from Fund No. 54
SF 400 to be certified to Contract No.
2015*043 with Perk Company, Inc., for
constructing and installing replacement sewers and repairing and rehabilitating existing sewers.
Section 3. That Council appropriates up to $2,599,868 from Fund No.54
SF 400 to be certified to Contract No.
PIRC 2016*1 with Perk Company,
Inc., for constructing and repairing
catch basins and manholes at various
locations,
which
contract
was
approved by the Board of Control in
Resolution No. 23-16, adopted January
20, 2016.
Section 4. That Council appropriates up to 2,633,335 from Fund No. 54
SF 400 to be certified to Contract No.
PI 2016*19 with United Survey, Inc.,
for rehabilitating and relining sewers
at various locations, which contract
was approved by the Board of Control
in Resolution No. 155-16, adopted April
13, 2016.
Section 5. That Council appropriates up to $2,018,396 from Fund No. 54
SF 400 to be certified to Contract No.
PI 2016*25 with Terrace Construction
Company for rehabilitating and
repairing sewer connections at various locations, which contract was
approved by the Board of Control in
Resolution No. 157-16, adopted April
13, 2016.
Section 2. That existing Sections 1,
3, 4 and 5 of Ordinance No. 578-16,
passed June 6, 2016, are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 57816, passed June 6, 2016, is supplemented by adding new Sections 5a and 7a
to read as follows:
Section 5a. That Council appropriates $586,873.96 from Fund No. 54 SF
400 to be certified to a contract with
Perk Company, Inc. for constructing
and repairing catch basins and manholes at various locations.
Section 7a. That the cost of the contracts authorized in this ordinance
shall be paid from funds appropriated
on an as-needed basis for these purposes.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the

23
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 17, 2016.
Effective October 19, 2016.

Ord. No. 1032-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts with
Motorola Solutions, Inc. for professional services necessary to maintain
the existing video surveillance system, for a period of three years, with
three one-year options to renew, the
first and third of which require additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
Motorola
Solutions,
Inc.
for
professional services necessary to
the
existing
video
maintain
surveillance system, for a period of
three years, with three one-year
options to renew, in the total sum of
$233,013, for the Department of Public
Safety. The first of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised
additional
legislative
without
If
such
additional
authority.
legislative authority is granted and
the first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second of
the one-year options to renew may be
exercised at the option of the Director
of Public Safety, without the necessity
of obtaining additional authority of
this Council. The third one-year option
to renew may not be exercised by the
Director of Public Safety without
additional legislative authority. The
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund No. 01-6001-6612, Request
No. RQS 6001, RL 2016-96.
Section 2. That the contract shall
require that the Director of Public
Safety ensure that a representative
from Motorola Solutions, Inc. shall
appear as frequent as every six
months before the Safety Committee
concerning
activities
under
the
contract, when such appearance has
been scheduled by the committee.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and,
provided
it
receives
the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed October 17, 2016.
Effective October 19, 2016.

Ord. No. 1035-16.
By Council Members Brady and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2014-55 with The Ryan Company, Inc. for the construction of the Ridge Road Substation ring bus project, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:

1593

The City Record

24

October 26, 2016

Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make the following alterations and modifications in
Contract No. PI 2014-55 with The Ryan Company, Inc. for the construction of the Ridge Road Substation ring bus project,
for the Division of Cleveland Public Power:
Subsidiary Additions
Unanticipated field conditions that required redesign
of the substation foundations and related changes
in the drainage system, grounding system, and fencing
Various schedule changes needed to preserve the
reliability of the CPP transmission system during
construction

$350,000.00

Total Subsidiary Additions:
Original Contract Amount
Total Subsidiary Additions
TOTAL REVISED CONTRACT AMOUNT

$350,000.00

$4,028,420.00
+350,000.00
$4,378,420.00

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director of Public Utilities, countersigned by the Mayor, and
consented to by the surety on the contract, which price to be paid has been agreed upon in writing and signed by the Director
of Public Utilities and the contractor. This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the original contract in the
sum of $350,000 to be paid from Fund No. 58 SF 230, RQS 2004, RL 2016-88.
Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 17, 2016.
Effective October 19, 2016.

Ord. No. 1140-16.
By Council Members Brady and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. MA 2015-23 with Energy
Mechanical Corp., Inc. to provide
labor and materials for maintenance,
repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating, ventilation and air
conditioning systems, for the various
divisions of the Department of Public
Utilities; and to amend the contract to
include the Office of Radio Communications.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1340-13, passed November 11, 2013, the Director of Public
Utilities entered into Contract No. MA
2015-23 with Energy Mechanical
Corp., Inc. to provide labor and materials
for
maintenance,
repair,
enhancement and/or replacement of
heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1340-13
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to exercise
the first option to renew Contract No.
MA 2015-23 for an additional year,
with Energy Mechanical Corp., Inc.
for the requirements for the additional year of the labor and materials for
maintenance, repair, enhancement
and/or replacement of heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems
for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities. This
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 1340-13 to exercise this
option.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into

an amendment to Contract No. MA 20123 with Energy Mechanical Corp., to
include the Office of Radio Communications.
Section 3. That the cost of the additional year and the contract amendment shall be charged against the
proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify
the amount of any purchase under the
contract, each of which purchases
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the
Director of Finance. (RQN 2002, RL
2016-31)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 17, 2016.
Effective October 19, 2016.

Ord. No. 1141-16.
By Council Members Brady and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing the East
103 Street, East 115 Street, East 186
Street,
Elgin
Avenue,
Rockport
Avenue, Thrush Avenue, West 83
Street, and West 123 Street area sewer
replacement or rehabilitation projects, which may include but not be
limited to installing manholes and
catch basins, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

1594

Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it
is determined to make the public
improvement of constructing the East
103 Street, East 115 Street, East 186
Elgin
Avenue,
Rockport
Street,
Avenue, Thrush Avenue, West 83
Street, and West 123 Street area sewer
replacement or rehabilitation projects (“the Improvement”), which
may include but not be limited to
installing manholes and catch basins,
for the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder or
bidders after competitive bidding on
a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement, provided, however,
that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components
may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply for
and accept one or more grants from
various public agencies, including
but not limited to the Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District, for the purposes of this ordinance; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant or grants; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
Improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 54 SF 001, 54 SF
400, from the fund or funds to which
are credited any grant funds received
from a public agency, including the

The City Record

October 26, 2016
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District, and from the fund or funds to
which are credited the proceeds from
the sale of future sewer bonds, if
issued for this purpose, Request No.
RQS 2003, RL 2016-94.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 17, 2016.
Effective October 19, 2016.

Ord. No. 1166-16.
By Council Members Brady and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. PS 2013-97 with IBM Corporation
to provide additional processors and
memory needed to host and administer the Oracle customer care and
billing system necessary due to the
migration to monthly billing, for the
Division of Water, the Department of
Public Utilities.

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. PS
2013-97 with IBM Corporation to provide additional processors and memory needed to host and administer the
Oracle customer care and billing system necessary due to the migration to
monthly billing, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities. All other terms and conditions
contained in the contract shall remain
the same.
Section 2. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 3. That the costs of the
amendment shall be paid from Fund
No. 52 SF 001, Request No. RQS 2002,
RL 2016-98.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect

25
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 17, 2016.
Effective October 19, 2016.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday October 24, 2016
2:00 p.m.
Safety Committee & Finance Committee: Present in Safety: Zone,
Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair; Keane,
Absence:
Authorized
McCormack.
Mitchell.
Unauthorized
Absence:
Kazy, Polensek.
Present in Finance: Kelley, Chair;
Cleveland, Vice Chair; Brancatelli,
Conwell, Keane, Zone. Authorized
Absence: Brady, Mitchell, Pruitt.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane,
Zone. Authorized Absence: Mitchell,
Pruitt.
Tuesday October 25, 2016
1:30 p.m.
Utilities Committee: Present: Vice
Chair, Brady, Brancatelli, Cummins,
Authorized
Keane,
Polensek.
Absence: Pruitt, Chair; Mitchell.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into a maintenance, inspection, and
repair agreement and to issue an encroachment permit, either separately or in
combination with the agreement, to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation to encroach into the
public rights of way over East 105th Street and Wilbur Avenue by installing, using and
maintaining pedestrian bridges. (O 1282-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into an agreement with Court Community
Services to establish and manage a work program at the House of Corrections for eligible
inmates and to place the inmates into the work program for a period up to one year; and
amend Section 135.59 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 as amended by
Ordinance No. 1871 06 passed December 11, 2006, relating to inmate labor. (O 1280-16). . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to apply for NEORSD Community Cost Share
Program Funds; to enter into an agreement with The Cleveland Metroparks to serve as a
sub grantee to design, construct and maintain up to four bioretention cells at Wildwood
Park, for the Office of Sustainability, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of at
least fifteen years. (O 1279-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Section 9 of Ordinance No. 856 07, passed May 21, 2007, as amended by various
ordinances, relating to authorizing development agreements for Community Reinvestment
Areas under Section 3735.65 et seq. of the Revised Code. (O 1274-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1576

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1576

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1575

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1574

Airport Division
To amend Section 571.01 and 571.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 325-04, passed May 10, 2004, relating to City Airport definitions
and vehicles for hire; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new Section
571.131, relating to Transportation Network Services and Fees. (O 773-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Adeline Avenue, 10817 (Ward 11) — Anna Felix, owner — appeal resolved on 10/19/16
(Doc. A-172-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
Baltic Road, 9607 (Ward 11) — Jeff Burgett, owner — appeal resolved on
10/19/16 (Doc. A-177-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
Cedar Avenue, 7405 (Ward 5) — James R. Billups c/o Joan Hampton, owner — appeal adopted
on 10/19/16 (Doc. A-121-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584

1595

The City Record

26

Clark Avenue, 4210 (Ward 3) — Ashley Cordona, owner — appeal resolved on 10/19/16
(Doc. A-161-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Colgate Avenue, 7014 (Ward 15) — Neil T. Clough, owner — appeal postponed to 11/16/16
on 10/19/16 (Doc. A-167-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 111th Street, 1211 (Ward 9) — Eloise Allen, owner — appeal resolved on
10/19/16 (Doc. A-174-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 124th Street, 404 (Ward 8) — Mountainside Realty Ventures, owner — appeal resolved
on 10/19/16 (Doc. A-176-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 85th Street, 1316 (Ward 7) — Edith D. Pace, owner — appeal postponed to 11/2/16 on
10/19/16 (Doc. A-155-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 85th Street, 2382 (Ward 6) — April C. Kenney, owner — appeal adopted on 10/19/16
(Doc. A-129-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Erin Avenue, 3302 (Ward 3) — Midfirst Bank, owner — appeal resolved on
10/19/16 (Doc. A-166-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Florian Avenue, 11316 (Ward 9) — U.S. Bank N.A., owner — appeal withdrawn on 10/19/16
(Doc. A-173-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harland Avenue, 17501 (Ward 8) — James Delmar, owner — appeal resolved on 10/19/16
(Doc. A-171-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Larchwood Avenue, 17725 (Ward 17) — Brian A. Drottar, owner — appeal resolved on
10/19/16 (Doc. A-170-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Milan Avenue, 12014 (Ward 11) — Dvorak Family Trust, owner — appeal adopted on 10/19/16
(Doc. A-138-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pacific Avenue, 5701 (Ward 14) — Jondarr Bradshaw, owner — appeal resolved on 10/19/16
(Doc. A-169-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Royal Road, 865 (Ward 8) — Franklin T. Champayne, owner — appeal adopted on
10/19/16 (Doc. A-124-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sylvia Avenue, 14301 (Ward 8) — Rockstar Total Family Salons and Body Art Studio’s, LLC,
owner — appeal adopted on 10/19/16 (Doc. A-133-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 106th Street, 1305 (Ward 15) — Dollar Bank Servicing Center, owner — appeal adopted
on 10/19/16 (Doc. A-137-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 106th Street, 1305 (Ward 15) — Gretchen Collins, owner — appeal adopted on 10/19/16
(Doc. A-136-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 29th Street, 2150 (Ward 3) — Barbara Clark, owner — appeal adopted on 10/19/16
(Doc. A-134-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 94th Street, 3431 (Ward 11) — Berardi Properties, Inc., owner — appeal resolved on
10/19/16 (Doc. A-178-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Avenue, 13517 (Ward 16) — Nadine Bechtel, owner — appeal resolved on 10/19/16
(Doc. A-168-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodside Avenue, 12717 (Ward 10) — Abdul Hameed, owner — appeal resolved on
10/19/16 (Doc. A-175-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

October 26, 2016
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1584

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Clark Avenue improvements (Lorain Ave. to W. 41st St.) — per Ord. 1101-15 to Perk
Company, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 436-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Online Consumer Engagement Program — per Ord. 702-16 to Brilliency, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 433-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Laisy Avenue, 9200 (Ward 6) — PPN 127-13-046 — Valarie J. McCall (BOC Res. 437-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Clark Avenue improvements (Lorain Ave. to W. 41st St.) — per Ord. 1101-15 to Perk
Company, Inc. — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 436-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Laisy Avenue, 9200 (Ward 6) — PPN 127-13-046 — Valarie J. McCall (BOC Res. 437-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Financial consulting services — approve subcontractor — Contract #PS2013*025 per BOC
Res. 30-13 (BOC Res. 435-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580
Integrated Fire and Security System — assign Contract No. RC2013*076 per Ord. 1530-12 to
Johnson Controls, Inc. (BOC Res. 434-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Financial consulting services — approve subcontractor — Contract #PS2013*025 per BOC
Res. 30-13 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 435-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580
Online Consumer Engagement Program — per Ord. 702-16 to Brilliency, Inc. — Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 433-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580

1596

October 26, 2016

The City Record

27

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Clark Avenue improvements (Lorain Ave. to W. 41st St.) — per Ord. 1101-15 to Perk
Company, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction, Office of Capital Projects
(BOC Res. 436-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580
Phase 2 AMR Deployment — per Ord. 655-15 — all bids rejected — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 432-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Online Consumer Engagement Program — per Ord. 702-16 to Brilliency, Inc. — Division of
Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 433-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580
Phase 2 AMR Deployment — per Ord. 655-15 — all bids rejected — Division
of Water (BOC Res. 432-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Integrated Fire and Security System — assign Contract No. RC2013*076 per Ord. 1530-12 to
Johnson Controls, Inc.- Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 434-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580

Board of Control — Water Division
Phase 2 AMR Deployment — per Ord. 655-15 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 432-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Corlett Avenue, 11701 (Ward 2) — Darnell Dozier, owner — appeal dismissed on 10/24/16
(Cal. 16-239) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 5718 (Ward 15) — Jim Alves, owner — appeal heard on 10/24/16
(Cal. 16-228) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 5720 (Ward 15) — Jim Alves, owner — appeal heard on 10/24/16
(Cal. 16-230) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 5724 (Ward 15) — Jim Alves, owner — appeal heard on 10/24/16
(Cal. 16-229) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gaylord Avenue, 9349 (Ward 2) — Continental Contracting, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 10/24/16 (Cal. 16-208) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gertrude Avenue, 6920 (Ward 12) — Walter Eddy, owner — appeal heard on
10/24/16 (Cal. 16-251) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grovewood Avenue, 17625 (Ward 8) — Salvation Army, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/24/16 (Cal. 16-259) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamilton Avenue, 2600 (Ward 7) — Flexco Incorporated, owner — appeal postponed to
11/14/16 on 10/24/16 (Cal. 16-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 10500 (Ward 11) — Emir Abeid, owner — appeal heard on 10/24/16 (Cal. 16-254) .
Scranton Road, 2177 (Ward 3) — 2177 Scranton LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
10/24/16 (Cal. 16-195) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 2155 (Ward 7) — Sunshine Diversified Investments III LLC, owner —
appeal heard on 10/24/16 (Cal. 16-253) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th Street, 2054 (Ward 3) — Paul Vandereyke, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/24/16 (Cal. 16-248) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2202 (Ward 3) — APJP Properties LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/24/16 (Cal. 16-234) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Larchmere Boulevard, 13700 (Ward 4) — Susan Spring, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/7/16 (Cal. 16-263) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oakfield Avenue, 12301 (Ward 4) — Charles A. Cavor Sr., owner — appeal to be heard on
11/7/16 (Cal. 16-268) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 19th Street, 2086 (Ward 3) — Urban Investments, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/7/16 (Cal. 16-266) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 19th Street, 2092 (Ward 3) — Urban Investments, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/7/16 (Cal. 16-264) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 19th Street, 2100 (Ward 3) — Urban Investments, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/7/16 (Cal. 16-265) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 93rd Street, 2220 (Ward 15) — Friends of Breakthrough Schools, owner — appeal to
be heard on 11/7/16 (Cal. 16-262) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1581
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1582
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1581
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1581
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1581
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1581

Building and Housing Department
Riparian Setbacks and Wetlands Setbacks – enact Chapter 351 - Housing, Zoning and Building
Codes, Penalties; Penalty – amend Section 327.99 – Building and Housing Department- City
Planning Commission – Ohio Environmental Protection Agency ( Ohio EPA ). (O 1555-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586
To amend Sections 3 and 5 of Ordinance No. 575-16, passed June 6, 2016; and to supplement the
ordinance by adding new Sections 3a, 3b, and 3c, to authorize contracts needed to
implement the grant received from Environmental Health Watch for the Build Health
Challenge Program. (O 1283-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1577

1597

The City Record

28

October 26, 2016

Capital Projects
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into a maintenance, inspection, and repair a
greement and to issue an encroachment permit, either separately or in combination with
the agreement, to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation to encroach into the public rights of
way over East 105th Street and Wilbur Avenue by installing, using and maintaining
pedestrian bridges. (O 1282-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1576

City of Cleveland Bids
Ductile Iron Pipe and Fittings — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per
C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due November 9, 2016 (advertised 10/19/2016 and 10/26/2016) . . . . . .
Employee Uniforms and Related Items for Airport Rescue and Firefighting — Department of
Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per C.O. Sec.
181.101 — bid due November 11, 2016 (advertised 10/19/2016 and 10/26/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Labor and Materials for Fencing Repair and Installation (Re-bid) — Department
of Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport —
per Ord. 333-16 — bid due November 11, 2016 (advertised 10/19/2016 and 10/26/2016) . . . . .
Labor and Materials for the Materials, Repair and Installation of Gates — Department of
Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per Ord. 333-16 —
bid due November 18, 2016 (advertised 10/19/2016 and 10/26/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Music Hall Improvements, Roof Repairs — Office of Capital Projects — Division
of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 733-14 — bid due November 10, 2016
(advertised 10/19/2016 and 10/26/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase of Transfer and Disposal of Tires — Department of Public Works — Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 1442-15 — bid due November 9, 2016
(advertised 10/19/2016 and 10/26/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turnout Clothing — Division of Fire — Department of Public Safety — Division of Fire —
per C.O. Sec. 135.06 — bid due November 10, 2016 (advertised 10/19/2016 and 10/26/2016) . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1585

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1585

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1585

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1585

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1585

City Planning Commission
Allowing the Regional Transit Authority to place advertising on permitted bus shelters and
transit stations. (O 1273-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Changing the Use and Area Districts of parcels along Lee Road south of the City border with
Shaker Heights and north of the Erie Rail Road Company line (south of Miles Ave), and
along a portion of Harvard Ave. and establishing an Urban Overlay district for the same
areas as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2542). (O 1160-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring a moratorium on the review and issuance of zoning permits, certificates of
occupancy, and other license or permit applications that would enable cultivators,
processors and retail dispensaries of medical marijuana in the City of Cleveland. (O 1016-16).
Riparian Setbacks and Wetlands Setbacks – enact Chapter 351 - Housing, Zoning and Building
Codes, Penalties; Penalty – amend Section 327.99 – Building and Housing Department- City
Planning Commission – Ohio Environmental Protection Agency ( Ohio EPA ). (O 1555-13). .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586

Civil Service Commission
Authorizing the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. CT 1511 PS 2016 222 with Ergometrics & Applied Personnel Research, Inc. to
provide additional civil transportability studies and civil service testing for entry level
law enforcement officers, for the Department of Public Safety and to extend the term of
the contract until December 31, 2017. (O 1275-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1574

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into a maintenance, inspection, and repair
agreement and to issue an encroachment permit, either separately or in combination with
the agreement, to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation to encroach into the public rights of
way over East 105th Street and Wilbur Avenue by installing, using and maintaining
pedestrian bridges. (O 1282-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1576

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport ( CHIA )
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more Master Leases and
Agreements with various signatory airlines and cargo carriers for the use and occupancy
of certain City-owned spaces located at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for a
period of five years, with two options to renew each for a period of two years, exercisable
by the Director of Port Control. (O 1162-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

Cleveland Public Power ( CPP )
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2014-55 with The Ryan Company, Inc. for the construction of the Ridge Road
Substation ring bus project, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power. (O 1035-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

1598

October 26, 2016

The City Record

29

Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services necessary to repair and maintain the decorative and special
lighting for City bridges and the Wyland Whale Mural Park on North Marginal Road,
including labor and insurance, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two years with two one year options to renew, the first of
which requires additional legislative authority. (O 1277-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1575

Codified Ordinances
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into an agreement with Court Community
Services to establish and manage a work program at the House of Corrections for eligible
inmates and to place the inmates into the work program for a period up to one year; and
amend Section 135.59 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 as amended by
Ordinance No. 1871 06 passed December 11, 2006, relating to inmate labor. (O 1280-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1576
To amend Section 571.01 and 571.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 325-04, passed May 10, 2004, relating to City Airport definitions
and vehicles for hire; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new Section
571.131, relating to Transportation Network Services and Fees. (O 773-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

Communications
Dedication Plat for Huron Road Relocation, between Euclid Avenue and East 14th Street.
Approved by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, and Development
Planning and Sustainability. (F 1284-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

Community Development
To amend Section 9 of Ordinance No. 856 07, passed May 21, 2007, as amended by various
ordinances, relating to authorizing development agreements for Community
Reinvestment Areas under Section 3735.65 et seq. of the Revised Code. (O 1274-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1574

Condolences
Condolence Resolution for David Howard Colvin. (R 1291-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573
Condolence Resolution for Leroy Frank Hunter, Sr. (R 1292-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573
Condolence Resolution for Lillie Mae House. (R 1290-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

Congratulations
Congratulations Resolution for Jacob R. Darvas. (R 1294-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573
Congratulations Resolution for John & Annie B. Hudson – 70th Wedding Anniversary. (R 1293-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

Contracts
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide air and cargo service consulting and advising services for a period of one year,
with three one-year options to renew, the second of which requires additional legislative
authority. (O 1030-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into an amendment to Contract No. PS 2013-22
with Science Applications International Corporation, nka Leidos, Inc. to provide
additional regulatory compliance services for an additional three months, for the
Department of Port Control. (O 1161-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more contracts with SoundCom
Systems for professional services necessary to maintain and support the audio paging
sound system for the Department of Port Control, for a period of one year with three
one-year options to renew, the second of which shall require additional legislative
authority. (O 1028-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to employ one or more professional consultants to
develop a data collection and analysis system for the Division of Police, including but not
limited to acquiring or developing software and performing other related services; and
authorizing one or more standard purchase and requirement contracts for the purchase,
lease, or lease with option to purchase of materials, equipment, supplies, and services,
needed to implement the project, for a period of one year, with two one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Safety. (O 1261-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more contracts with Motorola
Solutions, Inc. for professional services necessary to maintain the existing video
surveillance system, for a period of three years, with three one-year options to renew, the
first and third of which require additional legislative authority. (O 1032-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into an amendment to Contract No.
PS 2013-97 with IBM Corporation to provide additional processors and memory needed to
host and administer the Oracle customer care and billing system necessary due to the
migration to monthly billing, for the Division of Water, the Department of Public
Utilities. (O 1166-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first option to renew Contract No.
MA 2015-23 with Energy Mechanical Corp., Inc. to provide labor and materials for
maintenance, repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating, ventilation and air
conditioning systems, for the various divisions of the Department of Public Utilities; and
to amend the contract to include the Office of Radio Communications. (O 1140-16). . . . . . . . .

1599

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1595

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

The City Record

30

October 26, 2016

Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2014-55 with The Ryan Company, Inc. for the construction of the Ridge Road
Substation ring bus project, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power. (O 1035-16) . . . . . .
Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services necessary to repair and maintain the decorative and special
lighting for City bridges and the Wyland Whale Mural Park on North Marginal Road,
including labor and insurance, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of two years with two one year options to renew, the first
of which requires additional legislative authority. (O 1277-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. CT 1511 PS 2016 222 with Ergometrics & Applied Personnel Research, Inc. to
provide additional civil transportability studies and civil service testing for entry level
law enforcement officers, for the Department of Public Safety and to extend the term of
the contract until December 31, 2017. (O 1275-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing the East 103rd
Street, East 115th Street, East 186th Street, Elgin Avenue, Rockport Avenue, Thrush
Avenue, West 83rd Street, and West 123rd Street area sewer replacement or rehabilitation
projects, which may include but not be limited to installing manholes and catch basins,
and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement. (O 1141-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of maintaining and improving the
interior and exterior of various buildings, sites, and related systems, including but not
limited to, roofs; authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director
to employ one or more professional consultants necessary to design the improvement, for
a period of two years for contracts executed by December 31, 2019. (O 1276-16) . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 3 and 5 of Ordinance No. 575-16, passed June 6, 2016; and to supplement the
ordinance by adding new Sections 3a, 3b, and 3c, to authorize contracts needed to
implement the grant received from Environmental Health Watch for the Build Health
Challenge Program. (O 1283-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1575

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1574

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1574

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1577

Encroachments
Authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into a maintenance, inspection, and repair
agreement and to issue an encroachment permit, either separately or in combination with
the agreement, to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation to encroach into the public rights of
way over East 105th Street and Wilbur Avenue by installing, using and maintaining
pedestrian bridges. (O 1282-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1576

Fees
To amend Section 571.01 and 571.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 325-04, passed May 10, 2004, relating to City Airport definitions
and vehicles for hire; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new Section
571.131, relating to Transportation Network Services and Fees. (O 773-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

Grants
To amend Sections 3 and 5 of Ordinance No. 575-16, passed June 6, 2016; and to supplement the
ordinance by adding new Sections 3a, 3b, and 3c, to authorize contracts needed to
implement the grant received from Environmental Health Watch for the Build Health
Challenge Program. (O 1283-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1577

House Bill
Declaring a moratorium on the review and issuance of zoning permits, certificates of
occupancy, and other license or permit applications that would enable cultivators,
processors and retail dispensaries of medical marijuana in the City of Cleveland. (O 1016-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

Leases
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more Master Leases and
Agreements with various signatory airlines and cargo carriers for the use and occupancy
of certain City-owned spaces located at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for a
period of five years, with two options to renew each for a period of two years, exercisable
by the Director of Port Control. (O 1162-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

Liquor Permits
#3246657. New License Application, C2. Goldberg Investments Group LLC, 4200 West 130th St.
(Ward-16). (F 1287-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#6448039. New License Application, F10. North Union Farmers Market, 13209 Shaker Sq.
(Ward 4). (F 1286-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
#8788452. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A. TastebudFoods LLC, 991 East
185th St. (Ward 8). (F 1285-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit to 768 East 200th Street, 1st floor
and basement. (R 1288-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1600

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1578

October 26, 2016

The City Record

31

Withdrawing objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 12820 Brook Park Road and
patio and repealing Resolution No. 966-16 objecting to said renewal. (R 1259-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586
Withdrawing objection to the transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit at
668 Euclid Avenue, Suite 8, and repealing Resolution No. 940-16, objecting to said
transfer. (R 1289-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1578

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District ( NEORSD)
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to apply for NEORSD Community Cost Share
Program Funds; to enter into an agreement with The Cleveland Metroparks to serve as a
sub grantee to design, construct and maintain up to four bioretention cells at Wildwood
Park, for the Office of Sustainability, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of at
least fifteen years. (O 1279-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1575

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency ( Ohio EPA )
Riparian Setbacks and Wetlands Setbacks – enact Chapter 351 - Housing, Zoning and Building
Codes, Penalties; Penalty – amend Section 327.99 – Building and Housing Department- City
Planning Commission – Ohio Environmental Protection Agency ( Ohio EPA ). (O 1555-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586

Ohio Revised Code
Supporting Senate Bill 359 to amend the Ohio Revised Code to create a “Down Syndrome
Awareness” license plate. (R 1206-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586
To amend Section 9 of Ordinance No. 856 07, passed May 21, 2007, as amended by various
ordinances, relating to authorizing development agreements for Community
Reinvestment Areas under Section 3735.65 et seq. of the Revised Code. (O 1274-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1574

Parking Facilities Division
To amend Section 3 of Ordinance No. 226 15, passed April 13, 2015, as amended by various
ordinances, to add additional funding for parking revenue control equipment and
software, including reporting functions, for the West Side Market Parking Lot. (O 1278-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1575

Permits
Declaring a moratorium on the review and issuance of zoning permits, certificates of
occupancy, and other license or permit applications that would enable cultivators,
processors and retail dispensaries of medical marijuana in the City of Cleveland. (O 1016-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

Plats
Dedication Plat for Huron Road Relocation, between Euclid Avenue and East 14th Street.
Approved by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, and Development
Planning and Sustainability. (F 1284-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

Police Division
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to employ one or more professional consultants to
develop a data collection and analysis system for the Division of Police, including but not
limited to acquiring or developing software and performing other related services; and
authorizing one or more standard purchase and requirement contracts for the purchase,
lease, or lease with option to purchase of materials, equipment, supplies, and services,
needed to implement the project, for a period of one year, with two one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Safety. (O 1261-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

Port Control Department
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide air and cargo service consulting and advising services for a period of one year,
with three one-year options to renew, the second of which requires additional legislative
authority. (O 1030-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into an amendment to Contract No. PS 2013-22
with Science Applications International Corporation, nka Leidos, Inc. to provide
additional regulatory compliance services for an additional three months, for the
Department of Port Control. (O 1161-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more contracts with SoundCom
Systems for professional services necessary to maintain and support the audio paging
sound system for the Department of Port Control, for a period of one year with three
one-year options to renew, the second of which shall require additional legislative
authority. (O 1028-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more Master Leases and
Agreements with various signatory airlines and cargo carriers for the use and occupancy
of certain City-owned spaces located at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, for a
period of five years, with two options to renew each for a period of two years, exercisable
by the Director of Port Control. (O 1162-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1601

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

The City Record

32

October 26, 2016

Professional Services
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide air and cargo service consulting and advising services for a period of one year,
with three one-year options to renew, the second of which requires additional legislative
authority. (O 1030-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or more contracts with SoundCom
Systems for professional services necessary to maintain and support the audio paging
sound system for the Department of Port Control, for a period of one year with three
one-year options to renew, the second of which shall require additional legislative
authority. (O 1028-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to employ one or more professional consultants to
develop a data collection and analysis system for the Division of Police, including but not
limited to acquiring or developing software and performing other related services; and
authorizing one or more standard purchase and requirement contracts for the purchase,
lease, or lease with option to purchase of materials, equipment, supplies, and services,
needed to implement the project, for a period of one year, with two one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Safety. (O 1261-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more contracts with Motorola
Solutions, Inc. for professional services necessary to maintain the existing video
surveillance system, for a period of three years, with three one-year options to renew, the
first and third of which require additional legislative authority. (O 1032-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide services necessary to manage the West Side Market Parking Lot, for a period not
to exceed three years. (O 1281-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of maintaining and improving the
interior and exterior of various buildings, sites, and related systems, including but not
limited to, roofs; authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director
to employ one or more professional consultants necessary to design the improvement, for
a period of two years for contracts executed by December 31, 2019. (O 1276-16) . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 3 and 5 of Ordinance No. 575-16, passed June 6, 2016; and to supplement the
ordinance by adding new Sections 3a, 3b, and 3c, to authorize contracts needed to
implement the grant received from Environmental Health Watch for the Build Health
Challenge Program. (O 1283-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1576

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1574

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1577

Public Improvements
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing the East 103rd
Street, East 115th Street, East 186th Street, Elgin Avenue, Rockport Avenue, Thrush
Avenue, West 83rd Street, and West 123rd Street area sewer replacement or rehabilitation
projects, which may include but not be limited to installing manholes and catch basins,
and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement. (O 1141-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
Determining the method of making the public improvement of maintaining and improving the
interior and exterior of various buildings, sites, and related systems, including but not
limited to, roofs; authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director
to employ one or more professional consultants necessary to design the improvement, for
a period of two years for contracts executed by December 31, 2019. (O 1276-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1574
To amend Sections 1, 3, 4, and 5 of Ordinance No. 578-16, passed June 6, 2016; and to supplement
the ordinance by adding new Sections 5a and 7a relating to appropriating bond funds for
ongoing sewer - related projects. (O 1019-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

Public Works
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide services necessary to manage the West Side Market Parking Lot, for a period not
to exceed three years. (O 1281-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1576
To amend Section 3 of Ordinance No. 226 15, passed April 13, 2015, as amended by various
ordinances, to add additional funding for parking revenue control equipment and
software, including reporting functions, for the West Side Market Parking Lot. (O 1278-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1575

Recognition
Recognition Resolution for Naomi Bedell – 100th Birthday (R 1295-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

Regional Transit Authority ( RTA )
Allowing the Regional Transit Authority to place advertising on permitted bus shelters and
transit stations. (O 1273-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Finding the fraudulent actions of Wells Fargo bank inexcusable and insisting that it be
prohibited from doing business with the state of Ohio for a minimum of five years.
(R 1272-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1577

1602

October 26, 2016

The City Record

33

Resolutions of Support
Supporting LAND studio’s application to the Clean Ohio Fund Greenspace Conservation
Program for the Irishtown Bend Conservation and Recreation Project in the City of
Cleveland. (R 1258-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586
Supporting Senate Bill 359 to amend the Ohio Revised Code to create a “Down Syndrome
Awareness” license plate. (R 1206-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586

Safety Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to employ one or more professional consultants to
develop a data collection and analysis system for the Division of Police, including but not
limited to acquiring or developing software and performing other related services; and
authorizing one or more standard purchase and requirement contracts for the purchase,
lease, or lease with option to purchase of materials, equipment, supplies, and services,
needed to implement the project, for a period of one year, with two one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director of Public Safety. (O 1261-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into an agreement with Court Community
Services to establish and manage a work program at the House of Corrections for eligible
inmates and to place the inmates into the work program for a period up to one year; and
amend Section 135.59 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 as amended by
Ordinance No. 1871 06 passed December 11, 2006, relating to inmate labor. (O 1280-16). . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into one or more contracts with Motorola
Solutions, Inc. for professional services necessary to maintain the existing video
surveillance system, for a period of three years, with three one-year options to renew, the
first and third of which require additional legislative authority. (O 1032-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. CT 1511 PS 2016 222 with Ergometrics & Applied Personnel Research, Inc. to
provide additional civil transportability studies and civil service testing for entry level
law enforcement officers, for the Department of Public Safety and to extend the term of
the contract until December 31, 2017. (O 1275-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1576

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1574

Senate Bills
Supporting Senate Bill 359 to amend the Ohio Revised Code to create a “Down Syndrome
Awareness” license plate. (R 1206-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586

Sewers
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing the East 103rd
Street, East 115th Street, East 186th Street, Elgin Avenue, Rockport Avenue, Thrush
Avenue, West 83rd Street, and West 123rd Street area sewer replacement or rehabilitation
projects, which may include but not be limited to installing manholes and catch basins,
and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement. (O 1141-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594
To amend Sections 1, 3, 4, and 5 of Ordinance No. 578-16, passed June 6, 2016; and to supplement
the ordinance by adding new Sections 5a and 7a relating to appropriating bond funds for
ongoing sewer - related projects. (O 1019-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

State of Ohio
Finding the fraudulent actions of Wells Fargo bank inexcusable and insisting that it be
prohibited from doing business with the state of Ohio for a minimum of five years. (R 1272-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1577

Utilities Department
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to apply for NEORSD Community Cost Share
Program Funds; to enter into an agreement with The Cleveland Metroparks to serve as a
sub grantee to design, construct and maintain up to four bioretention cells at Wildwood
Park, for the Office of Sustainability, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of at
least fifteen years. (O 1279-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into an amendment to Contract No.
PS 2013-97 with IBM Corporation to provide additional processors and memory needed to
host and administer the Oracle customer care and billing system necessary due to the
migration to monthly billing, for the Division of Water, the Department of Public
Utilities. (O 1166-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to exercise the first option to renew Contract No.
MA 2015-23 with Energy Mechanical Corp., Inc. to provide labor and materials for
maintenance, repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating, ventilation and air
conditioning systems, for the various divisions of the Department of Public Utilities; and
to amend the contract to include the Office of Radio Communications. (O 1140-16). . . . . . . . .
Authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. PI 2014-55 with The Ryan Company, Inc. for the construction of the Ridge Road
Substation ring bus project, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power. (O 1035-16) . . . . . .

1603

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1575

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1595

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

The City Record

34

Authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services necessary to repair and maintain the decorative and special
lighting for City bridges and the Wyland Whale Mural Park on North Marginal Road,
including labor and insurance, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two years with two one year options to renew, the first of
which requires additional legislative authority. (O 1277-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing the East 103rd
Street, East 115th Street, East 186th Street, Elgin Avenue, Rockport Avenue, Thrush
Avenue, West 83rd Street, and West 123rd Street area sewer replacement or rehabilitation
projects, which may include but not be limited to installing manholes and catch basins,
and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement. (O 1141-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making the public improvement of maintaining and improving the
interior and exterior of various buildings, sites, and related systems, including but not
limited to, roofs; authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director
to employ one or more professional consultants necessary to design the improvement, for
a period of two years for contracts executed by December 31, 2019. (O 1276-16) . . . . . . . . . . . .
To amend Sections 1, 3, 4, and 5 of Ordinance No. 578-16, passed June 6, 2016; and to supplement
the ordinance by adding new Sections 5a and 7a relating to appropriating bond funds for
ongoing sewer - related projects. (O 1019-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

October 26, 2016

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1575

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1574

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1593

Vehicles
To amend Section 571.01 and 571.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 325-04, passed May 10, 2004, relating to City Airport definitions
and vehicles for hire; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new Section
571.131, relating to Transportation Network Services and Fees. (O 773-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

Ward 01
Changing the Use and Area Districts of parcels along Lee Road south of the City border with
Shaker Heights and north of the Erie Rail Road Company line (south of Miles Ave), and
along a portion of Harvard Ave. and establishing an Urban Overlay district for the same
areas as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2542). (O 1160-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579
Congratulation Resolution for John & Annie B. Hudson – 70th Wedding Anniversary (R 1293-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

Ward 03
Dedication Plat for Huron Road Relocation, between Euclid Avenue and East 14th Street.
Approved by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, and Development
Planning and Sustainability. (F 1284-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573
Supporting LAND studio’s application to the Clean Ohio Fund Greenspace Conservation
Program for the Irishtown Bend Conservation and Recreation Project in the City of
Cleveland. (R 1258-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586
Withdrawing objection to the transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit at 668
Euclid Avenue, Suite 8, and repealing Resolution No. 940-16, objecting to said transfer.
(R 1289-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1578

Ward 04
#6448039. New License Application, F10. North Union Farmers Market, 13209 Shaker Sq.
(Ward 4). (F 1286-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

Ward 06
Condolence Resolution for Lillie Mae House (R 1290-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

Ward 08
#8788452. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A. TastebudFoods LLC, 991 East
185th St. (Ward 8). (F 1285-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573
Finding the fraudulent actions of Wells Fargo bank inexcusable and insisting that it be
prohibited from doing business with the state of Ohio for a minimum of five years.
(R 1272-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1577
Objecting to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit to 768 East 200th Street, 1st floor
and basement. (R 1288-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1578

Ward 09
Finding the fraudulent actions of Wells Fargo bank inexcusable and insisting that it be
prohibited from doing business with the state of Ohio for a minimum of five years.
(R 1272-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1577
Recognition Resolution for Naomi Bedell – 100th Birthday (R 1295-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

1604

October 26, 2016

The City Record

35

Ward 10
Condolence Resolution for Leroy Frank Hunter, Sr. (R 1292-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573

Ward 11
Condolence Resolution for David Howard Colvin (R 1291-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573
Determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing the East 103rd
Street, East 115th Street, East 186th Street, Elgin Avenue, Rockport Avenue, Thrush
Avenue, West 83rd Street, and West 123rd Street area sewer replacement or rehabilitation
projects, which may include but not be limited to installing manholes and catch basins,
and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement. (O 1141-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1594

Ward 16
#3246657. New License Application, C2. Goldberg Investments Group LLC, 4200 West 130th St.
(Ward-16). (F 1287-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573
Congratulations Resolution for Jacob R. Darvas (R 1294-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1573
Withdrawing objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 12820 Brook Park Road and
patio and repealing Resolution No. 966-16 objecting to said renewal. (R 1259-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586

West Side Market
Authorizing the Director of Public Works to employ one or more professional consultants to
provide services necessary to manage the West Side Market Parking Lot, for a period not
to exceed three years. (O 1281-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1576
To amend Section 3 of Ordinance No. 226 15, passed April 13, 2015, as amended by various
ordinances, to add additional funding for parking revenue control equipment and software,
including reporting functions, for the West Side Market Parking Lot. (O 1278-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1575

Willard Park Garage
To amend Section 3 of Ordinance No. 226 15, passed April 13, 2015, as amended by various
ordinances, to add additional funding for parking revenue control equipment and software,
including reporting functions, for the West Side Market Parking Lot. (O 1278-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1575

Zoning
Changing the Use and Area Districts of parcels along Lee Road south of the City border with
Shaker Heights and north of the Erie Rail Road Company line (south of Miles Ave), and
along a portion of Harvard Ave. and establishing an Urban Overlay district for the same
areas as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2542). (O 1160-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579
Riparian Setbacks and Wetlands Setbacks – enact Chapter 351 - Housing, Zoning and Building
Codes, Penalties; Penalty – amend Section 327.99 – Building and Housing Department- City
Planning Commission – Ohio Environmental Protection Agency ( Ohio EPA ). (O 1555-13). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1586

Zoning Code
Declaring a moratorium on the review and issuance of zoning permits, certificates of
occupancy, and other license or permit applications that would enable cultivators,
processors and retail dispensaries of medical marijuana in the City of Cleveland. (O 1016-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579

1605

