The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Thirteenth, Two Thousand and Sixteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

8

Board of Control

8

Civil Service

10

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

15

2 Zachary Reed
3 Kerry McCormack

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
17

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

19

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

19

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

19

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

20

Committee Meetings

30

Index

30

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kerry McCormack ..............................................1429 West 38th Street
44113
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – _________________ Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Fred Szabo, Interim Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – ____________, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – _____________, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – Edward Jamison, Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Nycole West, Interim Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Julie Trott, Chair; Giancarlo
Calicchia, Vice Chair; Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Council
Member Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Donald Petit, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 15C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 14C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael R. Sliwinski – Courtroom 12A
Judge Suzan Marie Sweeney – Courtroom 12C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda
– Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016

Vol. 103

No. 5340

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2015-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cummins
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, J. Johnson, McCormack.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson (CHAIR), Dow (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Kazy, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR),
Cummins,
Dow,
McCormack, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR),
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Kazy, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Kazy, Keane, McCormack,
Mitchell, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Kazy, Reed.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:

Lounge, Inc., 7804 Carnegie Avenue
(Ward 6). Received.

Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Mitchell (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Dow, Kelley.

File No. 436-16.
#8871285.
Stock
Transfer
RE:
Application, C2 C2X D6. 13609 Lakewood Hts. LLC, 13609 Lakewood
Heights
Boulevard
(Ward
16).
Received.

Committee:
Pruitt
Operations
(CHAIR), Mitchell, Kelley, Keane,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
Cleveland,
(CHAIR),
Polensek, Pruitt.

Kelley
Keane,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 11, 2016
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:01 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady, Phyllis E. Cleveland, Kevin
Conwell, Brian J. Cummins, Kenneth
L. Johnson, Brian Kazy, Kevin J.
Kelley, Martin J. Keane, Kerry
McCormack,
Mamie
J.
Mitchell,
Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H.
Pruitt, Zack Reed, and Matthew
Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief of Regional Development Edward W. Rybka, and Directors
Langhenry,
Davis,
Szabo,
Spronz,
McGrath,
Cox,
O’Leary,
Nichols, Griffin.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Associate Pastor Cassandra Bledsoe,
Greater Abyssinia Baptist Church,
Cleveland, Ohio (Ward 9). Pledge of
Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
K. Johnson, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Zone.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 434-16.
RE:
#91770650005.
Economic
Development Transfer Application,
D5. Usha Babu LLC, 1375 East 9th
Street (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 435-16.
RE: #15721860002. Stock Transfer
Application, D5 D6. Club Center

559

File No. 437-16.
#2977644.
Stock
Transfer
RE:
Application, D5. G L M R, Inc., 12820
Road
(Ward
16).
Brookpark
Received.
File No. 442-16.
RE: #6398675. Economic Development Transfer Application, D5 D6.
1923 W 25th Street Inc., 1923 West
25th Street (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 443-16.
RE: #7082830. Economic Development
Transfer
Application,
D5.
Princess Paris LLC, 3560 East 93rd
Street (Ward 6). Received.
File No. 444-16.
RE: #5376709. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2 D6. Maa
Gayatri LLC, 4533 State Road (Ward
13). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 445-16 — Bobette Latrice
Hurst-Sudduth.
Res. No. 446-16 — Alice (Middlebrooks) Rivers.
Res. No. 447-16 — Marc Leon Brenner.
Res. No. 448-16 — Lucinda (Peoples) Garrett.
Res. No. 449-16 — Toni Renee
Chillious.
Res. No. 450-16 — Willie Edward
Brown.
Res. No. 453-16 — Alisa JohnsonWilliams.
Res. No. 454-16 — Hollis Crump.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objemction:
Res. No. 451-16 — Joyce L. Thompson.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 452-16 — Baiju R. Shah.

The City Record

4
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 429-16.
By Council Members Zone, K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Battery Park Development, LLC to encroach into the public right-of-way of West 73rd Street by
installing, using, and maintaining a
building foundation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Battery Park Development,
LLC, 38025 Second Street, Willoughby,
Ohio, 44094 (“Permittee”), to encroach
into the public right-of-way of West
73rd Street by installing, using, and
maintaining a building foundation at
the following location:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and being known as part of O.L. 30,
Township 7 North, Range 13 West,
being
more
particularly
and
described as follows:
Being a parcel of land lying on the
left side of the existing centerline of
right of way of Relocated West 73rd
Street as recorded in Volume
Page
of records of Cuyahoga
County and being located within the
following described points in the
boundary thereof;
Commencing at a monument box
found in the intersection of the centerline of right of way & construction
of West 73rd Street and the existing
centerline of right of way of Father
Frascati Dr. and the east line of O.L.
30, 0.00 feet right of centerline of right
of way & construction of Relocated
West 73rd Street, Sta. 7314+94.66;
Thence South 89 degrees 26 minutes
42 seconds West along the existing
centerline of right of way of Father
Frascati Dr., a distance of 25.34 feet to
a point;
Thence North 00 degrees 03 minutes
36 seconds East, a distance of 30.00
feet to a point being the intersection
of the existing west right of way line
of West 73rd Street and the existing
north right of way line of Father
Frascati Dr., 25.00 feet left of centerline of right of way & construction of
Relocated West 73rd Street Sta.
7315+24.39 and being the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING of the parcel
described herein;
Thence South 89 degrees 26 minutes
42 seconds West along the north right
of way line of Father Frascati Dr., a
distance of 23.00 feet to an iron pin
set;
Thence North 00 degrees 03 minutes
36 seconds East, a distance of 91.52
feet to an iron pin set;
Thence North 19 degrees 32 minutes
46 seconds East, a distance of 68.95
feet to an iron pin set on the existing
west right of way line of West 73rd
Street;
Thence South 00 degrees 03 minutes
36 seconds West along the existing
west right of way line of West 73rd
Street, a distance of 156.28 feet to the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.

Section 2. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
the prospective Permittee has properly indemnified the City against any
loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 3. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
installing
the
before
encroachment(s).
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Committee,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 430-16.
By Council Members McCormack,
K. Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate property for the public purpose
of constructing and maintaining a
sewer along Scranton Road for the
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation
project.
Whereas, the Council of the City of
Cleveland, by Resolution No. 78-16,
adopted March 21, 2016, declared the
necessity and intention of appropriating the fee simple property interests
described in this ordinance for the
public purpose of constructing and
maintaining a sewer along Scranton
Road for the Scranton/Carter Road
Rehabilitation project; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
this resolution has been served on the
persons in possession or having an
interest in the property; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of constructing and maintaining
a sewer along Scranton Road for the
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation
project, the following described fee
simple interests are appropriated:
Situated in State of Ohio, County of
Cuyahoga, City of Cleveland and
being known as part of Parcel 234 on
Bradford and Carter’s private map of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot No. 70, and also being part of a
parcel conveyed to Veronica Popil by
deed dated March 5, 2010 and recorded
as Instrument No. 201003050333 of the
Cuyahoga County Records and being

560

April 13, 2016
a parcel of land lying on the Western
side of Scranton Road centerline of
right of way (60 feet wide) and more
particularly bounded and described
as follows:
Commencing for reference at a
monument box with a drill hole in a
stone monument on Scranton Road
centerline of right of way (60 feet
wide), said monument box found
North 00 degrees 29 minutes 44 seconds East a distance of 277.44 feet
from a monument box with a drill
hole in a stone monument on Scranton
Road centerline of right of way, said
monument box also found South 03
degrees 07 minutes 00 seconds West a
distance of 937.66 feet from the intersection with University Avenue (60
feet wide); thence, along Scranton
Road centerline of right of way North
03 degrees 07 minutes 00 seconds East
(passing a monument box with a drill
hole in a stone monument found 0.43
feet right at a distance of 130.86 feet
and a monument box with a drill hole
in a stone monument 0.26 feet right at
a distance of 180.82 feet) a distance of
841.19 feet; thence, North 86 degrees 53
minutes 00 seconds West a distance of
30.00 feet to the Scranton Road Western right of way and the True Point of
Beginning of the parcel herein
described;
thence, North 86 degrees 53 minutes
00 seconds West a distance of 25.98
feet to a point on a curve on the
Grantor’s Western property line and
the Eastern property line of a record
12.1573 acre parcel conveyed to Flats
Industrial Inc. by deed dated May 6,
2013 and recorded as Instrument No.
201305060864 of the Cuyahoga County
Records;
thence, along the Grantor’s Western property line and the Eastern
property line of said parcel so conveyed to Flats Industrial Inc. along
an arc of curve to the left having a
radius of 1,402.63 feet, an arc length of
15.00 feet, a chord bearing North 02
degrees 37 minutes 08 seconds East, a
chord length of 15.00 feet, and a delta
of 00 degrees 36 minutes 25 seconds;
thence, South 86 degrees 53 minutes
00 seconds East a distance of 26.11
feet to the Scranton Road Western
right of way;
thence, along Scranton Road Western right of way, South 03 degrees 07
minutes 00 seconds West a distance of
15.00 feet to the True Point Of Beginning and containing 0.0090 acres (391
square feet), more or less, and subject
to all legal highways.
The above described tract is a portion of permanent parcel number 00426-002 carried on the tax map as 0.3749
acres (16,330 square feet).
Grantor claims title by deed dated
March 5, 2010 and recorded as Instrument No. 201003050333 of the Cuyahoga County Records.
The bearings referred to herein are
relative to grid north of the Ohio State
Plane Coordinates System, North
Zone NAD83 (2011) DATUM from GPS
observations and are for the purpose
of defining directional variations.
This description was prepared and
reviewed under the supervision of
Terin J. Kaminski, P.S., Registered
Surveyor No. 7207, and is based on survey made by Euthenics, Inc., between
October 2014 and June 2015 for the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of Law
is directed to apply to a court of competent jurisdiction to have a jury
impaneled to make inquiry into and
assess the compensation to be paid for

April 13, 2016
the fee simple interests described
above.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
Ord. No. 431-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of machines and equipment,
and labor and materials to repair
and/or replace parts or equipment to
maintain various types of machines
and equipment, for the Divisions of
Water, Cleveland Public Power, and
Water Pollution Control, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of up
to two years, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable by additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a period
up to two years, with a one-year
option to renew, exercisable by additional legislative authority, for the
necessary items of various types of
machines and equipment, and labor
and materials to repair and/or
replace parts or equipment to maintain various types of machines and
equipment
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Divisions
of Water, Cleveland Public Power,
and Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as a
single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of
the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a delivery order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RQN 2002, RL 2016-7)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements

The City Record
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 432-16.
By Council Members Zone, Pruitt,
Brancatelli, and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Economic Development and Public Utilities to enter
into a Project Agreement with The
Great Lakes Towing Company, or
their designees, relating to the sale
and development of property located
generally at Crescent Avenue and
West 53 Street; authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to transfer real
property located in the project area to
the control, possession, and use of the
Department of Economic Development for the development; authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell real property and
to grant or accept easements; and
authorizing any other agreements
necessary to implement this ordinance.
Whereas, The Great Lakes Towing
Company (“Great Lakes”) wishes to
expand its current site located at 4500
Division Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio;
and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns land adjacent to the Great
Lakes site that is no longer needed
for public use; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Utilities received authority under
Ordinance No. 1365-15, passed by this
Council November 30, 2015, to make
the public improvement of constructing improvements for access and
security at the Morgan Water Works
Plant which improvements will
impact The Great Lakes Towing Company site; and
Whereas, the Directors of Economic
Development and Public Utilities, and
The Great Lakes Towing Company,
or its designee, desire to enter into a
Project Agreement for the sale, and
development of certain properties
located generally at Crescent Avenue
and West 53rd Street including the
access and security improvements
needed; and
Whereas, the Department of Public
Utilities desires to transfer certain
property under its control to the
Department of Economic Development to be conveyed under the Project
Agreement; and
Whereas, Section 183.14 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, requires that such transfer be
preceded by an ordinance of Council
approving the transfer; and
Whereas,
the
Northeast
Ohio
Regional Sewer District (“NEORSD”)
has requested an easement on part of
the City of Cleveland property in
order to construct and maintain a
maintenance shaft for the Westerly
Tunnel project; and

561

5
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
desires to grant the easement; and
Whereas, implementation of the
Project Agreement and the land
transactions will be beneficial to all
parties; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section 183.14
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to transfer Parcel “C” depicted on the map placed in
the file mentioned below to the control, possession, and use of the
Department of Economic Development to implement the Project Agreement.
Section 2. That on consummation of
the transfer referenced above, the
directors participating in the transaction shall initial and date a copy of
this ordinance and deliver the copy to
the custody of the Division of Property Management of the Department of
Public Works.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any section of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 to the contrary, the Directors of Economic Development and
Public Utilities are authorized to
enter into a Project Agreement with
Great Lakes, for the development of
certain properties located generally
at Crescent Avenue and West 53
Street, including road and infrastructure improvements, and security
improvements to the Garrett Morgan
facility, and various real estate transactions necessary to implement the
Project Agreement, including but not
limited to the acquisition, disposition,
and private development of Parcels
“A”, “B” and “C” depicted on the map
placed in the file mentioned below.
Section 4. That the map and the legislative summary for the Project
Agreement, File No. 432-16-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 5. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the properties, taking into account all restrictions, and encumbrances placed by
the City of Cleveland in the deed of
conveyance. The City may retain one
or more easements over the properties
for ingress and egress purposes.
Section 6. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Economic Development is authorized to enter into an
Easement Agreement with NEORSD
for conveyance of an easement interest in a portion of the Parcel B property not needed for the City’s public
use.
Section 7. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the easement
to NEORSD.
Section 8. That any consideration
paid by Great Lakes and NEORSD for
a sale, or easement interest, shall be
not less than fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 9. That the conveyances
shall be made by official quitclaim
deeds or deed of easement prepared

6
by the Director of Law and executed
by the Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed or deeds shall
contain necessary provisions, including restrictive reversionary interests
as may be specified by the Board of
Control or Director of Law, which
shall protect the parties as their
respective interests require and shall
specifically contain a provision
against the erection of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 10. That the Directors of
Public Utilities and Economic Development, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to enter into and execute
any agreement, document, or certificate, and take any other actions
which may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate this ordinance.
Section 11. That any agreement or
other document authorized under this
ordinance shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 12. That the proceeds from
any sale, or easement interest
received under this ordinance shall be
deposited into 17 SF 965 (Industrial
Commercial Land Bank).
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Economic Development, City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Utilities, Development
Planning
and
Sustainability,
Finance.
Ord. No. 440-16.
By Council Members Kazy and
Brady.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 337.231, Portable Storage
Containers,
to
regulate
use
of
portable storage containers to protect
the public safety and aesthetics of
residential neighborhoods in the City;
and amending Section 327.99, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1396-14,
passed December 8, 2014, regarding
penalty.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
experienced an increase in the number of portable storage containers
(also known as “PODS” or “portable
on demand storage”) used by residents for their personal storage needs
or in conjunction with construction
projects; and
Whereas, unfortunately, some containers are placed in the front setback
areas of homes and for several
months or more which has resulted in
complaints from neighbors about public safety and aesthetics in residential neighborhoods; and
Whereas, several cities, including
Shawnee Hills, Ohio, Sacramento, California, and Cutler Bay, Florida, have
regulated the use of portable storage
containers, including their time,
placement, and condition to help
ensure public safety and aesthetics in
residential neighborhoods; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland recognizes the need to regulate the use
of portable storage containers as
accessory uses in order to protect the
public safety of Cleveland’s citizens

The City Record
and the aesthetics of residential
neighborhoods; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 337.231 as follows:
Section 337.231 Portable Storage
Containers
(a) For purposes of this section, a
“portable storage container” means a
container, unit, shed-like structure, or
other receptacle that is capable of
being moved and is, or can be, used
for the temporary storage of personal
property or building materials of any
kind, and is located outside an
enclosed building.
(b) No person shall place a portable
storage container on residential property without first obtaining a permit
issued by the Director of Building and
Housing, and displaying the permit
on the front of the container most visible from the street. The Board of Control shall determine the permit fee
and the Director of Building and
Housing shall determine the permit
application contents.
(c) All portable storage containers
and their use on residential premises
shall meet the following requirements:
(1) A portable storage container
may not be located at a residential
property for more than thirty (30)
consecutive days of any calendar
year; and
(2) No more than one portable storage container shall be placed on a lot
at any given time without the express
permission of the Director of Building
and Housing; and
(3) All portable storage containers
in use on a lot shall be in good condition free from rust, peeling paint and
other visible forms of deterioration;
and
(4) No portable storage container
shall be placed where it obstructs
traffic vision or on any public sidewalk or street, nor placed within any
required front yard set-back; and a
portable storage container shall be
placed at least ten feet away from any
side-street property line and from any
main building on an adjoining lot;
and
(5) Portable storage containers
may be kept on a property during the
term or a valid building permit issued
by the Director of Building and Housing for construction work on the property, and must be removed within fifteen (15) days of final cessation of
construction or any thirty (30) day
stop of construction; and
(6) No portable storage container
shall exceed twenty (20) feet in
length, ten (10) feet in width, or ten
(10) feet in height; and
(7) No portable storage container
may be used to house humans or animals of any kind.
Section 2. That Section 327.99 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1396-14, passed December 8, 2014 is
amended as follows:
Section 327.99 Penalty
(a) Except as provided in divisions
(c) and (d) below, any person, firm or
corporation who violates any of the
provisions of this Zoning Code or who

562

April 13, 2016
fails to comply shall, for each and
every violation or failure, be fined not
less
than
one
hundred
dollars
($100.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not
less than ten (10) days, nor more than
ninety (90) days, or both. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which such violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist under notification thereof.
(b) The imposition of any penalty
under this division shall not be construed as excusing or permitting the
continuance of any violation, and
when the violation constitutes a nuisance, any owner of the premises,
whether the owner at the time the violation was committed or his or her
assignee, shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this Zoning Code each
day he or she permits such nuisance
to continue unabated after due notice
from the Director of Building and
Housing of the existence of such nuisance.
(c) Any person, firm, or corporation
who violates any provision of Section
337.16 of this Zoning Code or who fails
to comply shall, for each and every
violation or failure, be fined not less
than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) which fine shall not
be reduced, waived or suspended. In
addition, imprisonment for not less
than ten (10) days nor more than ninety (90) days may be imposed. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which such
violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist after notification
thereof.
(d) Whoever violates Sections
337.23, 337.231, 347.02, 347.10, 347.121,
349.02, 349.04, 349.13, 350.19, 357.13 or,
357.14 or Section 347.08 as a first
offense of that section shall be fined
not more than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In addition to any other
method of enforcement provided for
in this chapter, the above listed minor
misdemeanors may be enforced by the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
(e) Whoever violates Section 347.08
as a second offense of that section
shall be fined not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30)
days, or both. Whoever violates Section 347.08 as a third or subsequent
offense of that section shall be fined
not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more
than six (6) months, or both.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 441-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution urging
the United States Senate to perform
its constitutional duty by promptly
scheduling a hearing and by holding

April 13, 2016
a confirmation vote for Judge Merrick Garland to ensure that the vacancy on the Supreme Court is filled without undue and unnecessary delay so
that the Supreme Court can effectively serve its essential constitutional
function as the final arbiter of the
law.
Whereas, the Constitution of the
United States provides that the Senate
shall provide Advice and Consent for
appointments to the Supreme Court of
the United States; and
Whereas, the Senate’s constitutional duty to advise and consent on judicial nominees is one of its most important and solemn responsibilities; and
Whereas, the Senate has confirmed
more than a dozen Supreme Court justices in presidential election years,
including five in the last 100 years;
and
Whereas, the Senate has confirmed
justices in presidential election years
in which the executive and legislative branches of government were
divided between two political parties,
including Justice Anthony Kennedy’s
confirmation in 1988; and
Whereas, the Senate Judiciary
Committee has never denied a
Supreme Court nominee a hearing
since it began holding public confirmation hearings; and
Whereas, if the Senate refuses to
consider a Supreme Court nominee
until after the next President is
sworn into office, it will result in the
longest Supreme Court vacancy
caused by Senate inaction since the
Civil War; and
Whereas, the President has nominated Merrick Garland, Chief Judge
of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit, who is
well-qualified and has more judicial
experience than any Supreme Court
nominee in history; and
Whereas, forcing the Supreme
Court to function with only eight justices
risks
creating
numerous
instances in which the Court is evenly
divided on the outcome of a case, preventing the Court from resolving conflicting interpretations of the Constitution among different regions of the
Nation and thereby undermining the
Supreme Court’s role as the final
arbiter of the law; and
Whereas, every Supreme Court
nominee who was not withdrawn by
the President has received an up-ordown vote within 125 days of President’s nomination announcement; and
Whereas, the Supreme Court vacancy caused by the death of Justice
Antonin Scalia occurred on February
13, 2016, 269 days before the 2016 presidential election, and since 1975, the
average number of days from nomination to confirmation vote for a
Supreme Court nominee has been 70
days; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
urges the United States Senate to perform its constitutional duty by
promptly scheduling a hearing and by
holding a confirmation vote for Judge
Merrick Garland to ensure that the
vacancy on the Supreme Court is
filled without undue and unnecessary
delay so that the Supreme Court can
effectively serve its essential constitutional function as the final arbiter
of the law.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to all members of the United States Senate and to President
Barack Obama.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 433-16.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with Ashbury Community Services, Inc for the Ashbury
Senior Computer Community Center
Training Program through the use of
Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement effective January 3, 2016
with the Ashbury Community Services, Inc., for the Ashbury Senior
Computer Community Center Training Program for the public purpose of
providing computer training classes
for adults and senior citizens residing
in the city of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 9 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $25,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
14. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 438-16.
By Council Members Reed, Cleveland and Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance amending
the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 345-16, passed March 14, 2016 as it
pertains to authorizing the Director
of the Department of Community
Development to enter into agreement
with Broadway School of Music & the
Arts for the Community Arts Instruction
and
Enrichment
Program
through the use of Wards 2, 5 and 12
Casino Revenue Funds.

563

7
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section
1 of Ordinance No. 345-16, passed
March 14, 2016 is hereby amended to
read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Broadway School of
Music & the Arts for the Community
Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program through the use of Wards 2, 5
and 12 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement effective February 1,
2016 with Broadway School of Music &
the Arts for the Community Arts
Instruction and Enrichment Program
for the public purpose of providing
art and music instruction to youth
residing in the city of Cleveland
through the use of Wards 2, 5 and 12
Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section
1 of Ordinance No. 345-16, passed
March 14, 2016 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
14. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 439-16.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Neighborhood Leadership Institute for the Building Community Bridges Program through the
use of Ward 7 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
into agreement with the Neighborhood Leadership Institute for the
Building Community Bridges Program for the public purpose of providing community collaborative workshops to promote public engagement
among the residents, stakeholders
and community leaders that reside in
the city of Cleveland through the use
of Ward 7 Casino Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $30,030 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.

The City Record

8
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
14. Nays 0.

MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:15 p.m. to meet on Monday, April
18, 2016, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

Ord. No. 362-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to paint poles and other
street side elements, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Approved by Committees on Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
K. Johnson, the absences of Council
Members Anthony Brancatelli, TJ
Dow, and Jeffrey D. Johnson are
hereby authorized.
Seconded by
Council Member Zone.

Director of Law, shall provide that
the compensation for the services
authorized
shall
not
exceed
$300,000.00, and shall contain such
other provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following sub-consultants
by
Glaus,
Pyle,
Schomer,
Burns & DeHaven, Inc. is approved:
Sub-consultant

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 260-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to lease certain property located at 1301-1325 Chester
Avenue, to Shaia Parking Inc., or its
designee, for the purpose of operating a parking lot, for a term not to
exceed five years; authorizing the
Director of Community Development
to enter into an Option to Purchase
Agreement with Shaia Parking, Inc.,
or its designee, in connection with
the sale of the property; authorizing
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies to convey the property,
which is no longer needed for the
City’s public use; and authorizing a
project agreement.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Approved by
Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 6, at the end, add the
following:
“The Director of Community Development shall notify the
Clerk of Council when the Director
exercises the Option to Purchase
authorized under this ordinance.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.

April 13, 2016

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
April 6, 2016
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 6, 2016
at 10:37 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Davis, Acting Director Camacho,
Director Cox, Acting Directors Withers,
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director
West,
Directors
Nichols,
and
O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.
Others: Tiffany White, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
Michael Curry, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 142-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 432-13, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
April 29, 2013, the firm of Glaus,
Pyle, Schomer, Burns & DeHaven,
Inc. (“Consultant”), is selected upon
the nomination of the Director of
Port Control from a list of qualified
persons or firms determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Port Control as the firm
of
consultants
available
to
be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to
provide professional services, necessary to provide construction management and administration services, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control, for
a period of one year, with three oneyear options to renew.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Glaus, Pyle, Schomer, Burns &
DeHaven, Inc. for the above-mentioned services, based upon its proposal dated March 7, 2016, which
contract shall be prepared by the

564

G & T Associates

Percentage
Amount
5.0%CSB/MBE
$15,000.00

McGuiness Unlimited,
Inc.
3.2%CSB/FBE
$ 9,600.00
Solar Testing Laboratories,
Inc.
4.0%CSB
$12,000.00
CHA Companies

Non-Certified
$15,000.00

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Camacho, Director
Cox, Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Interim Director West, Directors Nichols, and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 143-16.
By Director McGrath.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Danielle’s Services d/b/a
Critter Control of Cleveland for the
purchase of nuisance wildlife trapping and removal services, all items,
for the Division of Animal Care &
Control, Department of Public Safety, for the period of one year beginning with the date of the execution
of a contract, with two one-year
options
to
renew,
received
on
December 16, 2015, under the authority of Section 181.101, Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of estimated
quantity would amount to $77,500.00,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary for
the specified items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under the delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Camacho, Director
Cox, Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Interim Director West, Directors Nichols, and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 144-16.
By Director McGrath.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Galls, LLC for an estimated quantity of hydration packs,
Item 1, for the Division of Police,

April 13, 2016
Department of Public Safety, for a
period of six (6) months starting
upon the later of execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
the
goods
and/or
services,
for
received on March 18, 2016, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 88014, passed by the Cleveland City
Council July 16, 2014, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $120,000.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
quantity,
as
may
be
estimated
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Camacho, Director
Cox, Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Interim Director West, Directors Nichols, and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 145-16.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Erie Shore Industrial
Radiator, LLC, for an estimated
quantity of new radiators, heater
cores, air charged coolers, and fuel
tanks, repair and/or replacement,
parts and labor, all items, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works,
for a period of three years, beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on February 18,
2016 under the authority of Section
No. 131.64 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $155,000.00 (Net), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Camacho, Director
Cox, Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Interim Director West, Directors Nichols, and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 146-16.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Cleveland Freightliner,
Inc., dba Valley Freightliner Sterling & Western Star Trucks of
Cleveland, for an estimated quantity of Cummins engine, parts and
labor, all items, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works, for a period
of three years, beginning with the

The City Record

9

date of execution of a contract,
received on February 11, 2016 under
the authority of Section No. 131.64 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount
to
$203,350.00
(Net),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
the
goods
and/or
services,
for
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractors by Cleveland Freightliner, inc.,
dba Valley Freightliner Sterling &
Western Star Trucks of Cleveland,
is approved:
Percentage
Amount

Subcontractor

Fulton Armature

0.000%
TBD

Northeast Lubricants

0.000%
TBD

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Camacho, Director
Cox, Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Interim Director West, Directors Nichols, and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 147-16.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 026-16, adopted January
20, 2016, authorized the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
Nos. 106-22-006 and 106-22-174 to Phyllis J. Wilson for business parking,
as part of the City Land Reutilization
Program
established
under
Ordinance No. 2076-76, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on October
25, 1976; and
Whereas, in the sixth paragraph,
Resolution No. 026-16 incorrectly
identified the proposed purchaser of
the parcel to be sold as “Phyllis J.
Wilsohn”; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 026-16, adopted by
this Board January 20, 2016, authorizing the sale and development of
Permanent Parcel Nos. 106-22-006
and 106-22-174 to Phyllis J. Wilson
for business parking, is amended by
substituting “Phyllis J. Wilson” for
“Phyllis J. Wilsohn”, where appearing in the resolution.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
026-16 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Camacho, Director
Cox, Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Interim Director West, Directors Nichols, and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.

565

Resolution No. 148-16.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land ReutiProgram
(“Program”)
lization
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos., 007-06-008, 007-06-009, 007-12-008,
007-12-038, 007-12-040 and 007-12-045
located in Ward 3; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Ohio City Inc., or its
designee, has proposed to the City
to purchase and develop the parcels
for construction of residential housing; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 3 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Ohio City Inc., or
its designee, for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos.,
007-06-008, 007-06-009, 007-12-008, 00712-038, 007-12-040 and 007-12-045 located in Ward 3, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $200.00 each, which amount
is determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Camacho, Director
Cox, Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Interim Director West, Directors Nichols, and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 149-16.
By Director Burrows.
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 131-16, adopted March 30,
2016, fixed the compensation to be
paid to B2Gnow, the trade name of
AskReply, Inc., for licenses and for
maintenance and support services to
be performed under a two-year contract for a contract compliance and
certification monitoring system; and
Whereas, the fourth paragraph of
Resolution No. 131-16 incorrectly
stated the prospective contract term
as two-years starting April 1, 2014;
now, therefore,

10
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 131-16, adopted by
this Board March 30, 2016, fixing the
compensation to be paid to B2Gnow,
the trade name of AskReply, Inc.,
for licenses and for maintenance
and support services to be performed under a contract for a contract compliance and certification
monitoring system is amended, in
the fourth paragraph, by deleting
“for two years starting April 1, 2014”
and substituting “for one year starting April 1, 2016”, and in the fifth
paragraph, by inserting “AskReply,
Inc. dba” before “B2Gnow”.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
131-16 not expressly amended as
stated
above
shall
remain
unchanged and in full force and
effect.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Camacho, Director
Cox, Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Interim Director West, Directors Nichols, and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 150-16.
By Director McGrath.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Safariland, LLC for an
estimated quantity of police patrol
bikes and bike helmets, all items,
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, for a period
of six (6) months starting upon the
later of execution of a contract or
the day following expiration of the
currently effective contract for the
goods and/or services, received on
March 18, 2016, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 880-14, passed by
the Cleveland City Council July 16,
2014, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$386,800.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Safety is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the specified goods and/or
services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Camacho, Director
Cox, Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Interim Director West, Directors Nichols, and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 151-16.
By Director McGrath.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Sonco Worldwide, Inc. for
an estimated quantity of interlocking steel barriers, Item 2, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety, for a period of six (6)
months starting upon the later of
execution of a contract or the day
following expiration of the currently effective contract for the goods
and/or services, received on March
18, 2016, under the authority of Ordinance No. 880-14, passed by the

The City Record
Cleveland City Council July 16, 2014,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $69,995.00,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods and/or services.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Camacho, Director
Cox, Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Interim Director West, Directors Nichols, and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.
Resolution No. 152-16.
By Director McGrath.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on March 18, 2016
for interlocking steel barriers, Item
1, for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 880-14,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on July 16, 2014, are
rejected.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Acting Director Camacho, Director
Cox, Acting Directors Withers, Cosgrove, Interim Director West, Directors Nichols, and O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas, Interim Director WalkerMinor, and Director Fumich.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing will be notified of the results of
the examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
There-after, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of
the names of those candidates who
have been successful in all parts of
the examination.

April 13, 2016
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2016
Filing Beginning 4/15/2016
*4/8/2016
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.
26

27

Exam
Type

EE/OR Correctional
Officer
EE

Open

Environmental
Monitoring
Specialist I

Open
Open

28

EE

Guard

29

WR

Junior Personnel
Assistant
Open

30

WR/TY Legal Secretary Open

31

EE

Public Health
Sanitarian II

Open

25A* EE

Truck Driver
Non-Comp

32

Water Pipe
Repair Worker

WR

Open

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).

ROBERT BENNETT,
President

The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:

566

Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

The City Record

April 13, 2016
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 26
CORRECTIONAL OFFICER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $17.29 - $19.37 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available
online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 21, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility and 50%
of the final grade will be determined
based on Education, Experience, Professional Certifications, etc. found in
Resume.
ORAL INTERVIEW: This portion of
the exam will be worth 50% of the
final grade. Candidates will be notified of the time, date, and place of the
examination.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under
immediate
supervision,
assumes responsibility for the custody of inmates. Escorts, transports,
and guards inmates as required.
Maintains discipline and order among
inmates and their conformance to
rules and regulations to prevent
escape. Supervises the conduct of
inmates during meal times. Develops
and assigns work assignments to

inmates and supervises their work
while at the facility. Controls unruly
inmates using proper procedures and
techniques. Books prisoners. Searches
inmates entering buildings in an
approved manner for restricted items.
Checks prisoners in and out of facilities as required. Makes bed checks
and performs head counts. Patrols
assigned posts and other areas including cellblocks, corridors, and the general premises in a vigilant manner.
Locks and unlocks doors as required.
Maintains security over guns and
facility keys. Guards buildings and
grounds against unauthorized trespass, theft, or damage from fire or
other causes. Carries out orders and
directives as assigned. Prepares daily
reports, logs, and other documents, as
required, to properly document daily
work and activities. Performs LEADS
record checks regarding inmates. Utilizes division’s record management
system. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Must obtain an O.P.O.T.A.
Correctional Officer’s certification
within one year of the date of hire.
Must also complete an approved
firearm training course and qualify
with a .38 caliber weapon within one
year of the date of hire. Must be computer literate and be able to lift and
carry a minimum of 40 lbs. A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must be capable of becoming LEADS certified within 60 days of
the date of hire. The following are
preferred: OPATA Jail certification
and/or two years of jail experience;
Firearm training certificate and/or
Commission card. FELONY AND
SOME
MISDEMEANOR
CONVICTIONS MAY DISQUALIFY CANDIDATES.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. Any applicant who can provide proof of unemployment, public
assistance, or indigence is exempt
from the filing fee. A copy of such
proof must be included with the application.

567

11
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 27
ENVIRONMENTAL
MONITORING
SPECIALIST I (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $13.33 - $25.19 Per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY APRIL 15, 2016
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 21, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

The City Record

12
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
This is an entry level position working in the air monitoring section. Uses
air sampling equipment to collect particulate samples according to prescribed methods, and compiles data
from a variety of sources (e.g., strip,
chart, continuous air analysis equipment, high volume air sampling filters, etc.). Measures ambient and
stack concentration of pollutants
(e.g., carbon monoxide, ozone, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, etc.). Verifies the validity of collected data. Prepares air quality indexes and source
test reports. Performs other job-related duties as required. Follows all
operations
and
safety
policies.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXMINATION
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS.
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Environmental Science, Chemistry,
Physics, Biology, Geology, Engineering, Mathematics, or any other science-related field from an accredited
college or university is required, a
Bachelor’s Degree is preferred. Must
possess a basic knowledge of air pollution as it relates to air monitoring.
A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License
is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 28
GUARD (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $18.27 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 21, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
EVALUATYPE:
EXPERIENCE
TION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume. Each applicant is required to submit a detailed
resume of his/her education and
experience at the time of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

April 13, 2016
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Ohio Peace Officer
Training Certificate is required. (Substitution: Two years of full time paid
experience in Security work may be
substituted for certificate.) Must be
computer proficient. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee payable in cash or money order
(no checks). Applicants who are currently employed in this position with
the City of Cleveland are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under immediate supervision, patrols
and guards government-owned property. Monitors the facility security
system. Assesses security alarms and
breaches and determines and activates the appropriate response. Documents security incidents, violations,
and suspicious behaviors. Prepares
reports. Ensures all security incidents are addressed promptly and
efficiently. Communicates security
matters with appropriate authorities.
Utilizes electronic communications
equipment. Enforces regulations.
Interacts with and provides direction
for members of the public. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.

568

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 29
JUNIOR PERSONNEL ASSISTANT
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $43,469.45 per Year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO

April 13, 2016

The City Record

TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION

NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.

TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under immediate supervision, provides assistance with routine duties
in areas related to Human Resources,
Payroll, and Civil Service. Assists
with general clerical tasks. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
polices and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in Human Resources
(Payroll, Personnel Administration,
and/or Labor Relations), Employee
Training & Development, Public
Relations, or other business related
field is required. Must be proficient in
computer
and
software
skills
(Microsoft Office Suites).
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 30
LEGAL SECRETARY (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an OPEN examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY

13
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
ALL
INFORMATION
CONAND
TAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, assists in the
preparation of legal documents and
other papers. Performs general clerical duties. Takes and transcribes
legal dictation as required. Tracks
legislation as necessary. Manages
appointments and travel arrangements. Coordinates the scheduling of
meetings, depositions, conferences,
and court appearances. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.

FILING OF APPLICATION

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.

A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. An Associate’s Degree from
an accredited college or
University is required. Two years of
full time paid experience as a Legal
Secretary is required. (Substitution:
One year of full time paid experience
may substitute for each year of college education lacking. A certificate
in Legal Studies or closely related
field may substitute for the degree.)
Must be able to type at least 55 words
per minute.

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.

NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

NOTE: Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $50,700.42 per Year.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN/TYPING EXAMINATION Applicants will be notified
of the time, date, and place of the
exam by U.S. Mail.
NOTE: WRITTEN TEST = 60% OF
FINAL GRADE. TYPING TEST =
40% OF FINAL GRADE. THE WRITTEN TEST WILL BE ADMINISTERED FIRST. CANDIDATES MUST
RECEIVE A PASSING GRADE ON
THE WRITTEN TEST IN ORDER TO
BE ABLE TO TAKE THE TYPING
TEST WHERE CANDIDATES ARE
TO TYPE UP ONE OR MORE LEGAL
DOCUMENTS AS WELL AS HAVE A
MINIMUM OF 55 WPM (Gross words
per minute minus errors) IN ORDER
TO HAVE THEIR EXAMS GRADED.
FAILURE TO OBTAIN 55 WPM ON
THE TYPING PORTION OF THE
EXAM WILL RESULT IN AN AUTOMATIC SCORE OF ZERO. (FAILURE)
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT

569

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

The City Record

14
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 31
PUBLIC HEALTH SANITARIAN II
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $17.38 - $24.80 Per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available online or at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission,
601
Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form will
be accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN
THE CIVIL SERVICE OFFICE TO
APPLY TO TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM
8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY APRIL 15, 2016
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
APRIL 21, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
EVALUATYPE:
EXPERIENCE
TION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Conducts both routine and “troubleshooter” inspections in private
homes to insure proper environmental
hygiene. Issues orders, notices, or
referrals to other departments, and reinspects to insure compliance. Directs
field teams involved in both surveying areas for rat infection and baiting
rat burrows in those areas. Inspects
barber shops, swimming pools (public
and private), marinas, schools (private and public), institutions, places
of assembly, trailer parks, motels,
hotels, laundries, and other recreation facilities. Investigates citizens’
complaints relative to garbage and
refuse, vacant lots, sewage, animals,
weeds, and grass. Inspects and evaluates food shops and instructs industry
personnel in proper sanitation methods. Inspects and evaluates properties for lead hazards, tests for lead
levels and assesses lead-related environmental risks and hazards as
directed. Helps train and supervise

first-level sanitarians, environmental
technicians, and sanitarian aides.
Counsels residents in sanitation
methods. Helps plan programs and
work schedules. Enforces both state
and city health codes. Must be familiar with court procedures and methods of licenses revocation regarding
code violations. Performs other jobrelate duties as required. Follows all
operations
and
safety
policies.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXMINATION
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS.
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree with 45
quarter or 30 semester credits hours
in Science, Math, or Chemistry from
an accredited four-year college or university is required. Must be a Sanitarian-In-Training or become one within
90 days of the date of hire. Must
become a Registered Sanitarian within five years of the date of hire. In
order to be eligible or considered to
perform lead hazard inspections and
assessments, must have Ohio Lead
Based Paint Inspector and Lead
Based Paint Risk Assessor certifications. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required. Must own or have
access to a properly insured vehicle.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

570

April 13, 2016
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 25A
TRUCK DRIVER (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $19.99 - $20.80 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
EVALUATYPE:
EXPERIENCE
TION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
NOTE: THE ELIGIBLE LIST FOR
THIS CLASSIFICATION WILL BE
VALID FOR ONLY ONE YEAR FROM
THE DATE OF ITS APPROVAL BY
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
NOTE: Those persons who have
already applied for this exam during
the April 1 – April 7 Filing do not need
to apply again.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, drives a truck and
assists support personnel of the truck
in the performance of work for which
the truck is operated. Keeps daily
written records as required by division; Must have a knowledge of the
streets of Cleveland; Duties may
include Operates all mobile motorized
equipment and/or vehicles assigned
to the Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties ; Assists, to the extent
possible in other grounds maintenance functions; Operates the truck
mechanism for loading, unloading,
and compacting; Drives a dump truck,

The City Record

April 13, 2016
manual or automatic shift, with
hydraulic lifts and compressing operations; responsible for the normal,
preventative maintenance of his/her
assigned vehicle such as, but not limited to, checking oil, checking tires,
checking water, checking fuel, fuel
lights Performs other related duties
as assigned. Follows all operations
and safety policies and safe work
practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Class A
or B Commercial Driver’s License is
required. Must have a good driving
record. Must be able to lift and carry
75 pounds. Must be able to work outside in all types of weather. Must be a
City of Cleveland Seasonal Snow
Removal Vehicle Operator. The following requirements are specific to
particular hiring departments: Airbrake endorsement is required; Trailer endorsement is required; Four
years of full time paid experience
operating a Waste Collection vehicle
or a straight truck is required.
NOTE: Minimum qualifications must
be met as of the last day of the filing
period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 32
WATER PIPE REPAIR WORKER
(OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $16.77 - $21.68 per Hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO

TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

15
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

April 13, 2016.

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY APRIL 25, 2016

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
9:30 A.M.
Under immediate supervision in the
Pipe Repair Department of the
Bureau of Water Distribution does
work in connection with the installation, maintenance, and repair of the
water supply system. Performs related duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety polices and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required. Must be able
to lift and carry a minimum of 75
pounds and to work outside in all
types of weather.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have

571

Calendar No. 16-046: 1549 West 117th
Street (Ward 15)
Ingens Development, LLC., owner,
proposes to pave existing gravel
parking lot in a C2 Local Retail
Business District and a Pedestrian
Retail Overlay District. The owner
appeals for relief from the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 349.02 which states that
in all use districts, existing offstreet parking facilities shall not be
reduced
below
the
voluntarily
requirements of the Off-Street Parking and Loading Chapter. The proposed parking will block the driveway entrance eliminating all use of
the parking lot.
2. Section 349.05(a) which states
that no parking space shall be located within 10 feet of a residential
building; the proposed parking is
within 10 feet of ground floor windows. (Filed March 4, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-048: 5304 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 15)
Jose Casiano, owner, proposes to
change use from a store and 2 apartment units to gallery assembly and
café in a C2 Local Retail Business
District and Pedestrian Retail Overlay District. The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 343.01 which states that
gallery/assembly use is not permitted in a Local Retail Business District but first permitted in a General Retail Business District.
2. Section 349.04 which states that
9 spaces are required reduced to 6
spaces due to the Pedestrian Retail
Overlay reduction of 1/3.
3. Section 343.23(h) which states
that not less than 60% of front
facade must be composed of transparent windows or doors. (Filed
March 7, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-49: 11125 Magnolia
Drive (Ward 9)
Cleveland Music School Settlement, owner, proposes to install a
30’ x 40’ temporary tent for various
events that will occur from April 1,
2016 to October 1, 2016 on a parcel
located in an AA1 One Family Residential District. The owner appeals
for relief from the strict application

16
of the following sections of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 325.77 which states that
“temporary use” means any main
accessory use in any Use District
involving the erection or occupancy
of temporary structures.
2.
Section
347.10(a)(b)
which
states that no temporary use shall
be established until a permit for
such use has been issued by the
Commissioner of Building and Housing. A temporary permit shall not
exceed thirty (30) days in duration.
No temporary permit shall be issued
within sixty (60) days of the expiration of a previous temporary permit for the same temporary use, on
the same premises. Such temporary
use permit shall constitute a temporary waiver of off-street parking
requirements. Proposed temporary
use/structure will be for approximately 180 days. (Filed March 10,
2016)
Calendar No. 16-50: Appeal of Happy
Dog
Mobile
Food
Application
(Ward 14)
Lucky Dogs appeals under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from being denied
an application to locate a Mobile
Food Shop at Metrohealth Drive and
Scranton Road (#LUMF16-00004) by
the Cleveland City Council. (Filed
March 22, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-051: 17636 Lakeshore
Boulevard (Ward 8)
Gerald Westmoreland, owner, proposes to add use of motor vehicle
sales facility to existing, non-conforming auto repair garage in a C1
Multi-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
Section 337.08 which states that an
Auto Sales Facility is not a permitted use in a Multi-Family Residential District, but first permitted in a
General Retail Business District per
Zoning
Code
Section
343.11(b)(2)(I)(4). (Filed March 22,
2016)
Calendar No. 16-052: 7114 St. Clair
Avenue (Ward 10)
Eishons House, LLC., owner, proposes to change use from store to
bar and restaurant with entertainment in a C1 Local Retail Business
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 343.11(b)(2)(A) which
states that a bar/restaurant with
entertainment is first permitted in a
General Retail Business District;
proposed location is in a Local
Retail Business District. Per Section
347.12 the use must be 500 feet from
a residence district.
2. Section 349.04(e) which states
that a parking area equal to three
times the floor area (5,700) is
required and no additional off-street
parking is proposed. (Filed March
23, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-066: 12408 Euclid
Avenue (Ward 6)
Euclid Lakeview, LLC., owner,
proposes to construct 4 separate
apartment units in a C2 Semi-Industry District. The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 357.09(b)(2)(C) which
states that the aggregate width of

The City Record

April 13, 2016

the interior side yards must equal ¼
the height of the building which in
this case is 15 feet and 10 feet are
proposed.
Section
358.05(a)(2)
which
2.
states that a fence in the actual
front yard shall not exceed 4 feet
where a 6 foot tall fence is proposed.
3.
Section
357.08(b)(2)
the
required rear yard must be equal to
15% of the average depth of the lot
which is 284 feet therefore a 42 foot
rear yard is required and 5 feet are
proposed.
4. Section 337.17 which states that
the required minimum width of the
driveway must be 20 feet and 18 feet
are proposed through all parking
areas.
5. Section 355.04 which states that
the maximum gross floor area of a
building cannot exceed ½ the lot
area therefore 18,744 is allowed and
44,152 square feet are proposed.
6. Section 357.15(a) which states
that a residence building may be
erected in the rear of a main building in any use district if required
front, rear and side yards are provided and the distance between such
buildings is not less than forty (40)
feet, and if free and unobstructed
entranceway is provided for access
from the street to the rear building.
31 feet are proposed between buildings A and C; 5 feet between buildings C and D; 37 feet are proposed
between buildings D and E; and 37
feet between buildings B and E.
(Filed April 12, 2016)
POSTPONED FROM
MARCH 21, 2016
Calendar No. 16-022: 5162 Broadway
Avenue (Ward 5)
Community Assessment and Treatment Services, owner, proposes to
establish use as an outpatient substance abuse treatment clinic in a
C2 Local Retail Business District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
1.
Section
343.01(b)(2)
which
states that Local Retail Business
District allows uses permitted and
regulated in the adjacent Two-Family Residential District.
2. Section 337.03 which states that
use for drug and alcohol patients is
not permitted. (Filed February 3,
2016 - No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the CDC in order to hold
a public meeting.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 11,
2016 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-017: 781 Starkweather Avenue
Kristen McCann and Jonathan
Rose, owners, propose to build a 19'

572

x 19' two car garage in a B1 Two
Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-028: 1900 East 101st
Street
Innova Phase 2 L.P., owner, proposes to erect an 8 story, 161 suite,
extended stay hotel in an F3 Local
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 16-042: 1593 East 30th
Street
Hom Family Ltd. Partnership,
owner, proposes to establish use as
a bar with karaoke rooms in a B1
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 16-043: 8411 Broadway
Avenue
Community Assessment & Treatment Services, owner, proposes to
expand occupancy of existing Correctional Halfway House from 54 to
60 female residents in a C1 General
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 16-044: 3908 Lorain
Avenue
Malta Hall Association, owner,
proposes to add entertainment and
events such as live theater, music
and comedy performances, performance art, film screenings, lectures
and meetings for 10 to 150 persons,
food/drink
service
to
including
existing retail space in a D3 Local
Retail
Business
and
Pedestrian
Retail Overlay District (PRO).
following
The
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 16-040: 19001 Nottingham Road
NB
Cleveland
LLC.,
owner,
appeals under the authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from a Notice of Violation
Number V16003289 issued on February 2, 2016.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-002: 16117 Street
Clair Avenue
Argee Industries, Inc., owner, proposes to establish use as a Motor
Vehicle Repair Garage and Motor
Vehicle Sales Facility in a C2 Local
Retail Business District.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 16-045: 3908 Lorain
Avenue
Malta Hall Association, owner,
appeals under the authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d)
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from a Notice of Violation
Number V16005394 issued on February 19, 2016.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following
PONED:

case

was

POST-

Calendar No. 16-006: 15202 Waterloo
Road
Meir Besit Trust. Postponed to
May 23, 2016.

The City Record

April 13, 2016
The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, April 4, 2016 and the decisions were adopted and approved on
Monday, April 11, 2016:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were
Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 6, 2016

Calendar No. 16-008: 1959 East 59th
Street
Hemingway Development, proposes to construct a building pad and
parking lot in a Midtown Mixed Use
District 4 (MMUD4) on City of
Cleveland Land Bank parcels.
Calendar No. 16-009: 6100 Chester
Avenue
Geis Companies, proposes to construct a building pad and parking
lot in a Midtown Mixed Use District
2 (MMUD2) on City of Cleveland
Land Bank parcels.
Calendar No. 16-033: 15529 Munn
Road
Charles Barrett, owner, proposes
to build a 676 square foot two story,
21' - 10" high, wood frame garage
in an A1 Two-Family Residential
District.
Calendar No. 16-036: 1901 Freeman
Avenue
1901 Freeman LLC, owner, proposes to erect a 26' x 37' - 6" three
story frame single family residence
with attached garage in a B1 MultiFamily Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-037: 1903 Freeman
Avenue
1901 Freeman LLC, owner, proposes to erect a 26' x 37' - 6" three
story frame single family residence
with attached garage in a B1 MultiFamily Residential District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 16-038: 2685 East 79th
Street
The Opal Industrial Group LLC,
owner, appeals under the authority
of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the
City
of
Cleveland
and
Section
329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances from a Notice of Violation.
The following cases were heard
by the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, March 28, 2016 and the decisions were adopted and approved on
Monday, April 11, 2016:
The
following
APPROVED:

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-031: 2910 Hancock
Avenue
Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp. owner, and Michael
Horton propose to erect a 22' - 7" x
28' - 9" three story frame single
family residence with an attached
garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-032: 2168 West 29th
Street
Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp. owner, and Michael
Horton propose to erect a 22' - 7" x
28' - 9" three story frame single
family residence with an attached
garage in a B1 Two-Family Residential District.
Secretary

As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-270-15.
RE: Appeal of John P. Martin,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half Story Masonry Property,
located on the premises known as
14312 Triskett Road a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated December 4, 2015
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until June 30, 2016 to complete abatement of the violations.
The property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-14-16.
RE: Appeal of Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, Owner of the One
Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence One & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 11914 Lenacrave Avenue
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated December 23, 2015 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-14-16 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.

17
Docket A-16-16.
RE: Appeal of Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, Owner of the One
Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
3247 East 128th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated December 23,
2015 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-16-16 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-17-16.
RE: Appeal of Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, Owner of the One Story
Garage — Detached; Wood Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 2109 West 95th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
GARAGE, dated December 23, 2015
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-17-16 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-20-16.
RE: Appeal of Yavonda Mosley,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Residence
Two
&
Two-Family
Story
Frame
Property,
One/half
located on the premises known as
3434 East 118th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE
DAMAGE, dated December 10, 2015
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 1, 2016 to obtain
all required permits, and until September 1, 2016 to complete abatement of all violations on the property. The property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-15-16.
RE: Appeal of Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, Owner of the Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
11213 Greenwich Lane from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated December 22,
2015 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-15-16 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.

Docket A-21-16.
RE: Appeal of Hala Smadi, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two & One/half
Story Masonry Property, located on
the premises known as 3777 West
133rd Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated January 14, 2016 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until July 1, 2016 to complete abatement of the violations.
The property is REMANDED at this

573

The City Record

18
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
in
order.
Motioned
by
Mr.
so
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Maschke
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-22-16.
RE: Appeal of Kema LLC, Owner
of the One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence One & One/half
Story Masonry Property, located on
the premises known as 1118 East
176th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated December 28,
2015 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until June 15, 2016 to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-23-16.
RE: Appeal of Linda Newsome,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Residence
Two
&
Two-Family
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
1108 East 77th Street a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated June 14, 2012 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-23-16 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-24-16.
RE: Appeal of Bruce & Janine
Johnson,
Owners
of
the
Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 2513 East 126th Street
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
INTERIOR/ EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated January 15, 2016 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 1, 2016 to obtain
all
required
permits,
and
until
August 1, 2016 to complete abatement of all violations on the property, noting that the upstairs unit is
not to be rented until the porch
work is completed; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-25-16.
RE: Appeal of Makina Management
Inc.,
Owner
of
the
One
Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two & One/half Story Frame
Property, located on the premises
known as 4014 Brookside Boulevard
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
FIRE DAMAGE, dated January 8,
2016 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until May 1, 2016 to obtain
all required permits, and until July
1, 2016 to complete abatement of all
violations on the property. The property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-26-16.
RE: Appeal of Alan Jenkins,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Wood
Property,
located
on
the
premises known as 16300 Melgrave
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLA—
EXTERIOR
MAINTETION
NANCE, dated December 30, 2015 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until January 17, 2017 to
complete abatement of all violations
on the property; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-27-16.
RE: Appeal of Lamont Weakly,
Owner of the R-2 Residential — Nontransient;
Apartments
(Shared
Egress) Two Story Frame Property,
and U Utility — Towers, Tanks,
Sheds Fences over 8’ One & One/half
Story Garage — Detached; Wood
Frame Property, located on the
premises known as 3594 East 55th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE &
GARAGE, dated August 27, 2012 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property to the Department of Building and Housing for supervision and
any required further action, with the
understanding that there will be an

574

April 13, 2016
attempt made, within the next thirty (30) days, to obtain all required
permits to complete the project.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Maschke
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-28-16.
RE: Appeal of Michael Rivas,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
Story
Frame
Property,
One/half
located on the premises known as
3543 Woodbridge Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated January 13, 2016 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until June 1, 2016 to complete abatement of all violations on
the
property;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-29-16.
RE: Appeal of WRRS, LLC, Owner
of the VL Vacant Lot, located on the
premises known as 16700 St. Clair
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated January 22, 2016 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, that based
upon photographic evidence and testimony presented by all parties, a
motion is in order at this time to
find that the Notice of Violation was
properly issued as it refers to the
demolition of the property, and that
the rubble left on the property from
the demolition is not acceptable; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing to pursue the disposition of
the escrow money, and for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-45-16.
RE: Appeal of Greater Cleveland
Food Bank, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
15500 S. Waterloo Road from an
ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated February 25, 2016 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled at the request of
the Appellant.

The City Record

April 13, 2016
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolutions as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-9-16 — REZ Properties LLC
A-10-16 — Patrick Slaughter
A-11-16 — Elizabeth Edwards/Janice Edwards
A-18-16 — Rochelle Sessor
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
March 23, 2016
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
Legal Notice
Advertisement of the Clerk of
Cleveland Municipal Court, City of
Cleveland, Ohio. As authorized by
Ordinance 459.03(d), the Clerk of the
Cleveland Municipal Court is seeking sealed proposals in response to
a Request for Proposal (R.F.P)
issued April 13, 2016 for management consulting for the Parking
Violations Bureau, processing of
parking tickets including but not
limited to: database management
and delinquent ticket noticing and
certain other collection services for
parking tickets issued against vehicles in the City of Cleveland. Each
proposal must be accordance with
the specifications of the R.F.P. The
R.F.P. is available at the office of
the
Clerk,
Cleveland
Municipal
Court, Justice Center, Level 2, 1200
Ontario St., Cleveland, Ohio 44113.
Each prospective bidder must submit a letter of intent to bid to the
Clerk by April 29th, 2016. No proposals will be considered unless
delivered to the Clerk’s Office no
later than 3:00 p.m. (EST) June 6th,
2016.
April 6, 2016, April 13, 2016, April 20, 2016,
and April 27, 2016.

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016
File No. 44-16 — Miscellaneous Pothole Repairs, for the Division of
Streets, Department of Public
Works, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE IS NO PRE-BID MEETING
SCHEDULED FOR THIS PROJECT.
April 6, 2016 and April 13, 2016
FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 2016
File No. 45-16 — Horse Trailers (ReBid), for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 88014, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 2014.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016 AT
1:30PM 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CITY HALL, ROOM 18, DIVISION
OF
FINANCIAL
REPORTING
CONTROL (FRC) CONFERENCE
ROOM Cleveland Ohio 44114.
April 13, 2016 and April 20, 2016

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2016

NONE

File No. 46-16 — Aviation Maintenance & Labor, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public

575

19
Safety, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 AT 10:00
A.M. BURKE LAKEFRONT AIRPORT, 1501 NORTH MARGINAL
ROAD, ROOM 108, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
File No. 47-16 — HVAC/R Supplies,
Items, Materials, and Parts, for
the Division of Property Management,
Department
of
Public
Works, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 AT 10:00
A.M. CITY HALL, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 8, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
April 6, 2016 and April 13, 2016
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2016
File No. 49-16 — Personal Protection
Equipment (Groups 3 & 4) (ReBid), for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 88014, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 2014.
THERE WILL BE AN OPTIONAL
PRE-BID MEETING, ON THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016 AT 3:30PM
601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CITY
HALL, ROOM 6, CLEVELAND
OHIO 44114.
File No. 50-16 — For Rentals of
Interlocking Steel Barriers (ReBid), for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 88014, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 2014.
THERE WILL BE AN OPTIONAL
PRE-BID MEETING, ON THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 AT 2:00PM
601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CITY
HALL, ROOM 6, CLEVELAND
OHIO 44114.
April 13, 2016 and April 20, 2016
WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 2016
File No. 51-16 — 2016 Summer Food
Service Program - 3 Month Breakfast & Lunches (Re-Bid), for the
Division of Recreation, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1293-15,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, November 9, 2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, MONDAY, APRIL 25, 2016 AT 10:00
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
THE
DIVISION
OF
RECREATION, ROOM 8, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
April 13, 2016 and April 20, 2016
THURSDAY, MAY 5, 2016
File No. 48-16 — Highland Park
Cemetery
Mausoleum
Improvements, for The Mayor’s Office of
Capital Projects, Department of
Public Works, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 537-12, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 14, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND

The City Record

20
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($5000) ONLY IN THE FORM OF
A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
OR
MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
TO
PURCHASE
ACCEPTED
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 AT
10:00 A.M. CITY HALL, ROOM
517A, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND. OHIO 44114.
THERE ARE TWO (2), MANDATORY SITE VISITS. THE BIDDERS
SHALL MEET AT THE HIGHLAND
PARK
MAUSOLEUM
BUILDING,
21400
CHAGRIN
BOULEVARD,
HIGHLAND
HILLS, OHIO 44122.
THE FIRST MANDATORY SITE
VISIT IS SCHEDULED FOR 1:00
P.M FOLLOWING THE PRE-BID
CONFERENCE ON THURSDAY
APRIL 21 THE SECOND MANDATORY SITE VISIT IS SCHEDULED FOR 10:00 A.M. ON FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 2016. BIDDERS
ARE REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE IN AT LEAST ONE (1) OF
THE SCHEDULED SITE VISITS.
April 13, 2016 and April 20, 2016

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 420-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New D3A
Liquor Permit at 3528-30 Independence Road, 1st floor and patio and
repealing Resolution No. 106-16,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
New D3A Liquor Permit at Royal
Klassic, LLC, 3528-30 Independence
Road, 1st floor and patio, Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
7964035 by Resolution No. 106-16
adopted by the Council on January 25,
2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
D3A Liquor Permit at Royal Klassic,
LLC, 3528-30 Independence Road, 1st
floor and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 7964035, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 106-16, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Res. No. 421-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C2 Liquor
Permit at 4380 State Road and repealing Resolution No. 121-16, objecting to
said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
New C2 Liquor Permit at State Road
Food & Beverage, Inc., DBA Save
More Mart, 4380 State Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number
8517121 by Resolution No. 121-16
adopted by the Council on February 1,
2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C2 Liquor Permit at State Road Food
& Beverage, Inc., DBA Save More
Mart, 4380 State Road, Cleveland,
44109,
Permanent
Number
Ohio
8517121, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 121-16,
containing such objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Res. No. 422-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
stock of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
at 3892 West 130th Street and repealing Resolution No. 48-16, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of stock of a by Resolution No. 48-16 adopted by the Council
on January 11, 2016; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and

April 13, 2016
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to Guru Kripa,
Inc., DBA West Mini Mart, 3892 West
130th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44111,
Permanent No. 3453185, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 48-16, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Res. No. 423-16.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 3612 Clark Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 1063-15 objecting
to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to Ami Amal, Inc., 3612
Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent Number 0173650 by Resolution No. 1063-15 adopted by the
Council on August 19, 2015; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to Ami Amal, Inc., 3612
Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent Number 0173650, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1063-15, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Ord. No. 1511-15.
By Council Member Zone
An ordinance changing the Use District of parcels north of Clifton Blvd, south of Lake Avenue between West
117th Street and West 115th Street to Townhouse and local Retail districts, a ‘2’ height district and a ‘K’ area
district as identified on the attached map (Map Change No. 2529).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:

576

April 13, 2016

The City Record

21

Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of West 117th Street and Lake Avenue;
Thence southerly along the centerline of West 117th Street for a distance of 66.75 ft;
Thence easterly along a line parallel with the centerline of Lake Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of W. 116th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Lake Ave;
Thence westerly along said centerline to the place of origin;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a ‘Townhouse 3’ District, a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height
district.”
Section 2. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of W. 117th and the westerly prolongation of the northerly line of sublot 7 in the
Cook & Faerber Re-Sub allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 32, Page 18 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence northerly a distance of 112.89 ft;
Thence easterly along a line parallel with Lake Ave to its intersection with the centerline of W. 116th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the southerly line
of sublot 15 in the Cook & Faerber Re-Sub allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 32, Page 18 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and its prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W. 116th
Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Clifton Boulevard;
Thence westerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of W. 117th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline to the place of origin;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a ‘Local Retail’ District , a ‘K’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height
district.
Section 3. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of W. 116th Street and the westerly prolongation of the northerly line of sublot
13 in the Cook & Faerber Re-Sub allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 32, Page 18 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the centerline of W. 115th street;
Thence southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line
of sublot 16 in the Cook & Faerber Re-Sub allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 32, Page 18 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and its prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of W.
116th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline to the place of origin;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a ‘Parking’ District , an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
district.”.
Section 4. That the change of zoning of lands described in Section 1 through 3 shall be identified as Map Change
No. 2529, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the
Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective May 4, 2016.

577

The City Record

22
Ord. No. 1533-15.
By Council Member Cimperman (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 3143.01 to 3143.05 and
3143.99, Exterior Walls and Appurtenances, to require inspection of building facades to protect the public safety and welfare from risk of injury
that may result from the effects of
building deterioration on exterior
facades.
Whereas, due to age, the elements,
lack of maintenance, design or construction errors, or a combination of
these factors, building facades deteriorate over time, posing potential
unsafe conditions that if unaddressed, can jeopardize public safety
and surrounding properties; and
Whereas, several cities, including
Columbus, Pittsburgh, Detroit, Chicago, New York, Boston, Milwaukee,
Philadelphia, and St. Louis, require
building owners to periodically
inspect certain building facades to
help ensure public safety; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland recognizes the need to protect the public
safety and welfare of Cleveland’s citizens and visitors from the risk of
injury that may result from the
effects of building deterioration on
exterior facades by requiring building owners to inspect these facades
periodically and report their findings;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 3143.01 to 3143.05 and 3143.99, as
follows:
CHAPTER 3143, EXTERIOR
WALLS AND APPURTENANCES
Section 3143.01 Definitions
(a) “Substantial Structure” means
any structure of any construction
type or use that is five (5) stories or
seventy-five (75) feet above grade,
whichever is shorter, at any point
along its perimeter.
(b) “Protected distance” means the
horizontal distance measured perpendicular from any substantial structure to a public way, public land,
other structure or adjoining property.
(c) “Qualified Inspector” means
either of the following: (1) a design
professional certified in inspection of
the specific elements that make up
the facade of the structure, and
licensed by the State of Ohio; or (2) a
special
inspector
or
inspection
agency accredited and experienced in
the specific type of structure being
inspected, and qualified under the
Ohio Building Code for Special
Inspectors.
Section 3143.02 Inspection and
Reporting Requirements for Exterior
Walls and Appurtenances ;fee
In order to maintain a building’s
exterior walls and appurtenances in a
safe condition, the following requirements shall apply to all buildings that
are at least five stories or seventyfive (75) feet above grade, whichever
is shorter, have a protected distance
that is equal to or less than the height
of the substantial structure from its

tallest height above grade, and are
thirty (30) years or older. This section
shall not apply to one-, two- or threefamily residential buildings:
(a) Inspection Requirements. The
owner of a substantial structure shall
conduct a critical inspection of the
condition of exterior walls and appurtenances at least once every five
years.
(1) Such inspection shall be conducted and witnessed by a qualified
inspector, by or on behalf of the
owner of the building. Such inspection shall meet or exceed the general
inspection standards under the ASTM
Standards for Periodic Inspection of
Building Facades for Unsafe Conditions contained in Designation E 227014. Any areas found to be deficient in
the general inspection shall require a
detailed inspection.
(2) The owner shall complete such
inspection and file a report within the
following time:
i. All new inspections and reports
for structures fifty (50) years or older
shall be completed and filed within
one year of the effective date of this
section, and successive inspections
and reports shall be completed every
five years from the date of the original inspection report filed in accordance with division (b).
ii. All new inspections and reports
for structures thirty (30) years to
fifty (50) years shall be completed
and filed within two years of the
effective date of this section, and successive inspections and reports shall
be completed every five years from
the date of the original inspection
report filed in accordance with division (b).
iii. If a structure has already been
inspected prior to the adoption of this
Chapter, the owner must file a report
of that inspection within one year of
the effective date of this section, and
successive inspections and reports
shall be completed every five years
from the date of the original inspection report filed in accordance with
division (b).
(b) Inspection Report. The owner
of a substantial structure shall register with the Director of Building and
Housing by submitting a written
report, prepared by a qualified inspector who conducted or supervised the
inspection, as follows:
(1) Such report shall clearly document the condition of the exterior
walls and appurtenances as either
safe, unsafe, or safe with a repair and
maintenance program. The report
shall document all significant deterioration, unsafe conditions, and movement observed, in sufficient detail so
that a comparison of successive
reports will indicate any change of
condition. Such report must be signed
by and bear the professional seal of
the qualified inspector.
(2) Such report shall be filed with
the Director of Building and Housing
together with a fee, in an amount to
be determined by the Board of Control, within the time specified in division (a)(2).
(3) Such report shall include the following:
i. The location of the building by
address and permanent parcel number;
ii. The year the building was built;
iii. The date the building was
inspected;
iv. The name, address, and title of
the person or firm who conducted the
inspection;

578

April 13, 2016
v. Complete description of inspections conducted based on ASTM
E2270-14, including the locations of
and descriptions the general inspection areas and any of detailed inspection areas.
(4) Such inspection report shall be
filed with Director of Building and
Housing every five years from the
date of the original report. The owner
shall keep and maintain the complete
and full inspection documentation onsite or produce said documentation
within forty-eight hours of any
request by the Director of Building
and Housing or the Chief of Fire, or
their designees.
(c) Notice of Unsafe condition.
Upon the discovery of an unsafe condition relating to the exterior walls or
appurtenances, the owner shall notify
the Director of Building and Housing
immediately in writing of such condition, and immediately begin repair,
reinforcement or precautionary measures, with the required permits, to
abate the unsafe condition to ensure
public safety.
Section 3143.03 Certificate of Exterior Walls and Appurtenances Inspection
(a) Issuing of Certificates. The
Director of Building and Housing
shall issue an exterior wall and
appurtenances certificate only after
having received satisfactory proof of
inspection, and after the inspection
report of the architect or engineer
reports a safe condition. No building
owner or person in control of a building, subject to the requirements in
this Chapter shall permit the substantial structure to be occupied without
such certificate.
(b) Keeping and Producing of Certificates. The owner or person in control of a building subject to the
requirements of this Chapter shall
keep and maintain such certificate
on-site or produce said certificate
within forty-eight hours of any
request by the Director of Building
and Housing or officials or the Chief
or Fire or officials, or their designees.
No building owner or person in control subject to the requirements of
this Chapter shall fail to keep and
maintain or produce the required certificate.
Section 3143.99 Penalties
In addition to any other method of
enforcement provided for in Chapter
3103, whoever violates any provision
of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day
during which noncompliance or a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. Organizations convicted of an offense shall be fined as
provided by Cleveland Codified Ordinance Sections 601.10 and 601.99.
Section 3143.04 Rules
The Director of Building and Housing shall promulgate any rules as
may be necessary for the purposes of
carrying out the provisions of this
Chapter.
Section 2. That new Chapter 3143
shall take effect sixty days after the
effective date of this ordinance. One
year after the effective date of this
ordinance, the Director of Building
and Housing shall provide the members of Council with a review of this
legislation. That Chapter 3143 as
enacted by this ordinance, shall be of
no force and effect two years after the
effective date of this ordinance.

April 13, 2016
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Ord. No. 39-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance extending
the moratorium on the review and
issuance of land filling permits in the
City of Cleveland unless authorization is given by Council.
Whereas, the issuance of land filling permits is governed by Chapter
561 of the Codified Ordinances; and
Whereas, Chapter 561 authorizes
the Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects
to issue permits to fill land; however,
the chapter’s very broad criteria fails
to provide community safeguards,
limitations on the amount of fill or to
require inspections of the filling
process or the type of fill;
Whereas, Chapter 561 does not
require coordination with other relevant city departments, often leaving
city departments unaware of matters
a department should be monitoring
and regulating; and
Whereas, this Council believes the
filling permit process must contain
rigorous yet reasonable regulations
that will allow for better control by
the city of both the land fill permitting process and filling process itself;
and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 11915, passed July 22, 2015, this Council
declared a moratorium on the review
and issuance of land filling permits in
the City of Cleveland until January
22, 2016; and
Whereas, appropriate city departments are in the process of drafting
reasonable regulations within a new
permitting procedure for filling of
land in order to create a clear and efficient process with community safeguards, limitations on the amount of
fill and to require inspections of the
filling process and the type of fill; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health, safety, or welfare in
that an extension of the moratorium
on the review and issuance of land fill
permits in the City is necessary to
allow the continued consideration of
improved regulations for a land fill
permitting process; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland that:
Section 1. That, for the reasons stated in the preamble, this Council
declares an extension of the moratorium on the review and issuance of land
filling permits for a period commencing on January 22, 2016 and ending on
either the effective date of an ordinance creating new regulations for
the land fill permitting process or
July 22, 2016, whichever date occurs
first, unless authorization for a specific permit is given by Council via
separate legislation within the moratorium period.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

The City Record
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Ord. No. 116-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located along Carter Road to Lake
Link LLC, for purposes of implementing the City’s Scranton-Carter Rehabilitation Project.
Whereas, the Director of Capital
Projects has requested the sale of the
City-owned property to Lake Link
LLC (the “Redeveloper”) no longer
needed for public use and located
along Carter Road for purposes of
implementing the City’s ScrantonCarter Rehabilitation Project; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, it
is found and determined that the following described property is no
longer needed for public use:
Parcel “C”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being a portion of a parcel of land
conveyed to the City of Cleveland by
deed dated January 20, 1947 and
recorded in Volume 6252, Page 175 of
the Cuyahoga County Deed Records
and portions of Vacated Franklin
Avenue as shown in Volume 265, Page
6, Volume 375, Page 13 and Volume
202, Page 59 of the Cuyahoga County
Map Records, further described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of said Franklin
Avenue, 60 feet wide (vacated by Ord.
491-93, Passed on 05/05/1993) with the
easterly line of Columbus Road (80
feet wide); thence along said center
line of vacated Franklin Avenue and
the proposed south right of way of
Carter Road, N 88°55'37" E, a distance
of 10.00 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING;
Thence along the proposed south
right of way of Carter Road N
57°29'06" E, a distance of 63.59 feet to
a point;
Thence continuing along the proposed south right of way of Carter
Road N 73°43'15" E, a distance of
148.74 feet to a point;
Thence continuing along the proposed south right of way of Carter
Road N 63°32'12" E, a distance of
136.51 feet, to the westerly line of
West 20th Street (66 feet wide);
Thence S 00°42'12" E, along said
westerly line of West 20th Street, a
distance of 100.72 feet, to the northerly line of said Franklin Avenue, 60
feet wide (vacated by Ord. 307-67,
Passed on 03/06/1967) as shown in
Volume 202, Page 59 of the Cuyahoga
County Map Records;

579

23
Thence N 89°22'18" E, along said
northerly line of vacated Franklin
Avenue a distance of 33.00 feet, to the
centerline of said West 20th Street;
Thence S 00°42'12" E, along centerline of said West 20th Street, a distance of 30.00 feet to its intersection
with the center line of said vacated
Franklin Avenue;
Thence along the center line of said
vacated Franklin Avenue as shown in
Volume 202, Page 59 of the Cuyahoga
County Map Records, S 89°22'18" W, a
distance of 33.00 feet to a point;
Thence continuing along the center
line of said vacated Franklin Avenue
as shown in Volume 375, Page 13 of
the Cuyahoga County Map Records, S
88°55'37" W, a distance of 86.75 feet to
a point;
Thence N 00°42'12" W, a distance of
30.00 feet to a point on the south line
of said parcel of land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland;
Thence along said south line of a
parcel of land conveyed to the City of
Cleveland S 88°55'37" W, a distance
of 86.71 feet to a point;
Thence S 00°36'05" E, a distance of
30.00 feet to a point on the center line
of said vacated Franklin Avenue as
shown in Volume 265, Page 6 of the
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence along the center line of said
vacated Franklin Avenue S 88°55'37"
W, a distance of 146.75 feet, to the
POINT
OF
BEGINNING;
said
described tract containing 19,305 Sq.,
Ft., 0.4432 Acres, be the same more or
less and subject to all legal highways.
Parcel “D”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and being a portion of a parcel of land
conveyed to the City of Cleveland by
deed dated January 20, 1947 and
recorded in Volume 6252, Page 177 of
the Cuyahoga County Deed Records,
further described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
south right of way of Bay Street (30
feet wide) and the east right of way
of West 20th Street (66 feet wide),
Thence N 58 07' 35" E along said
south right of way of Bay Street, a distance of 69.17 feet to the place of
beginning;
Thence continuing along said south
right of way of Bay Street N 58 07'
35" E, a distance of 89.46 feet to a
point being the N.E. corner of said
parcel of land conveyed to the City of
Cleveland;
Thence S 00 42' 12"E along the
East line of said parcel of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland, a distance of 35.06 feet to a point being the
S.E. corner of said parcel of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland;
Thence S 58 07' 35" W, along the
South line of said parcel of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland, a distance of 158.63 feet, to a point on the
east right of way of said West 20th
Street and the S.W. corner of said parcel of land conveyed to the City of
Cleveland;
Thence N 00 42' 12" W, along said
east right of way of said West 20th
Street and the west line of said parcel
of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland, a distance of 23.49 feet, to a point
and the principle place of beginning,
said described tract containing 4,212
Sq. ft., 0.0967 Acres of land, be the
same more or less and subject to all
legal highways.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies

24
is authorized to sell the abovedescribed property to the Redeveloper
at a price not less than appraised
value, and other valuable consideration, which is determined to be fair
market value, taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances as may be
placed by the City of Cleveland in the
deed of conveyance.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain necessary provisions, including
restrictive reversionary interests as
may be specified by the Board of Control or Director of Law, which shall
protect the City’s interests and shall
specifically contain a provision
against the erection of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Ord. No. 154-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute a deed of easement granting
to East Ohio Gas Company, dba
Dominion East Ohio certain easement
rights in property located along
Wade Oval Drive, and declaring that
the easement rights granted are not
needed for the City’s public use.
Whereas, The East Ohio Gas Company, dba Dominion East Ohio
(“Dominion” has requested the Director of Public Works to convey certain
easement rights in property located
along Wade Oval Drive in University
Circle; and
Whereas, Dominion requires an
easement to install a gas line along
Wade Oval Drive in University Circle
to supply gas to the Cleveland Museum of Natural History; and
Whereas, the easement rights to be
granted are not needed for the City’s
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
an easement interest in the following
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 394.
Starting at a drill hole in stone monument found in the centerline of East
108th Street, 60.00 feet wide, at its
intersection with the northerly line of
East Boulevard; thence South 82° 35'
56" East, 22.71 feet to the Principal

The City Record
Place of Beginning of the easement
herein intended to be described;
thence North 67° 09' 00" East, 21.43
feet;
thence southwesterly by a curve to
the left, an arc distance of 97.41 feet,
said arc having a radius of 365.00 feet,
a central angle of 15° 17' 27", and a
chord which bears South 0° 07' 12"
West, 97.12 feet;
thence South 7° 31' 32" East, 244.18
feet;
thence southwesterly by a curve to
the right, an arc distance of 145.36
feet, said arc having a radius of 158.00
feet, a central angle of 52° 42' 48", and
a chord which bears South 18° 49' 52"
West, 140.29 feet;
thence southwesterly by a curve to
the right, an arc distance of 31.30 feet,
said arc having a radius of 628.67 feet,
a central angle of 2° 51' 09", and a
chord which bears South 46° 36' 51"
West, 31.30 feet;
thence southwesterly by a curve to
the right, an arc distance of 94.58 feet,
said arc having a radius of 657.64 feet,
a central angle of 8° 14' 24", and a
chord which bears South 52° 09' 37"
West, 94.50 feet;
thence South 64° 35' 24" West, 75.88
feet;
thence South 44° 58' 51" West, 22.15
feet;
thence southwesterly by a curve to
the left, an arc distance of 105.83 feet,
said arc having a radius of 473.04 feet,
a central angle of 12° 49' 06", and a
chord which bears South 32° 51' 23"
West, 105.61 feet;
thence southwesterly by a curve to
the left, an arc distance of 76.31 feet,
said arc having a radius of 226.53 feet,
a central angle of 19° 18' 03", and a
chord which bears South 16° 47' 48"
West, 75.95 feet;
thence southeasterly by a curve to
the left, an arc distance of 30.81 feet,
said arc having a radius of 117.00 feet,
a central angle of 15° 05' 21", and a
chord which bears South 0° 23' 54"
East, 30.72 feet;
thence southeasterly by a curve to
the left, an arc distance of 107.72 feet,
said arc having a radius of 849.02 feet,
a central angle of 7° 16' 10", and a
chord which bears South 11° 34' 40"
East, 107.65 feet;
thence southeasterly by a curve to
the left, an arc distance of 28.47 feet,
said arc having a radius of 196.78 feet,
a central angle of 8° 17' 21", and a
chord which bears South 23° 51' 06"
East, 28.44 feet;
thence South 62° 00' 13" West, 20.00
feet;
thence northwesterly by a curve to
the right, an arc distance of 32.16 feet,
said arc having a radius of 216.78 feet,
a central angle of 8° 30' 01", and a
chord which bears North 23° 44' 46"
West, 32.13 feet;
thence northwesterly by a curve to
the right, an arc distance of 111.03
feet, said arc having a radius of 869.02
feet, a central angle of 7° 19' 13", and
a chord which bears North 11° 36' 11"
West, 110.95 feet;
thence northwesterly by a curve to
the right, an arc distance of 36.08 feet,
said arc having a radius of 137.00 feet,
a central angle of 15° 05' 21", and a
chord which bears North 0° 23' 54"
West, 35.98 feet;
thence northeasterly by a curve to
the right, an arc distance of 83.05 feet,
said arc having a radius of 246.53 feet,
a central angle of 19° 18' 03", and a
chord which bears North 16° 47' 48"
East, 82.65 feet;

580

April 13, 2016
thence northeasterly by a curve to
the right, an arc distance of 111.31
feet, said arc having a radius of 493.04
feet, a central angle of 12° 56' 08", and
a chord which bears North 32° 54' 54"
East, 111.08 feet;
thence North 44° 58' 51" East, 26.59
feet;
thence North 64° 35' 24" East, 77.87
feet;
thence northeasterly by a curve to
the left, an arc distance of 90.26 feet,
said arc having a radius of 637.64 feet,
a central angle of 8° 06' 37", and a
chord which bears North 52° 05' 44"
East, 90.18 feet;
thence northeasterly by a curve to
the left, an arc distance of 30.30 feet,
said arc having a radius of 608.67 feet,
a central angle of 2° 51' 09", and a
chord which bears North 46° 36' 51"
East, 30.30 feet;
thence northeasterly by a curve to
the left, an arc distance of 126.96 feet,
said arc having a radius of 138.00 feet,
a central angle of 52° 42' 48", and a
chord which bears North 18° 49' 52"
East, 122.53 feet;
thence North 7° 31' 32" West, 244.18
feet;
thence northwesterly by a curve to
the right, an arc distance of 94.85 feet,
said arc having a radius of 385.00 feet,
a central angle of 14° 06' 58", and a
chord which bears North 0° 28' 03"
West, 94.61 feet to the Principal Place
of Beginning and containing 21,246.51
square feet (0.4878 acres) of land as
described on November 30, 2015 by
R.M. Kole & Assoc., Corp., Professional Land Surveyors.
Section 2. That the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized
to convey the above-described easement interest to Dominion subject to
any conditions stated in this ordinance, at fair market value to be
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to install a gas
line along Wade Oval Drive in University Circle to supply gas to the
Cleveland Museum of Natural History.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that the
easement shall not be assignable
without the consent of the Director of
Public Works; that the easement
shall require that Dominion provide
reasonable insurance, maintain any
Dominion improvements located within the easement; pay any applicable
taxes and assessments; and shall contain such other terms and conditions
that the Director of Law determines
to be necessary to protect and benefit
the City.
Section 5. That the conveyance referenced above shall be made by official deed of easement prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Director of Public Works on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The Directors
of Public Works and Law are authorized to execute any other documents,
including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as may be
necessary to effect this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

April 13, 2016
Ord. No. 192-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue one or more permits to Everstream Solutions, LLC to encroach
into the public right-of-way at various
locations in the City of Cleveland by
installing, using, and maintaining
fiber optic cable, duct banks, and
vaults to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power utility poles (by separate permission of pole owner).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue one
or more permits, revocable at the will
of Council, to Everstream Solutions,
LLC, 800 W. St. Clair Avenue, 2nd
Floor, Cleveland, OH 44113 (“Permittee”) to encroach into the public rightof-way at various locations in the City

The City Record
of Cleveland by installing, using, and
maintaining fiber optic cable, duct
banks, and vaults to be attached to
Cleveland Public Power utility poles.
The permit(s) authorized shall not be
issued until the Manager of the Division of Engineering and Construction
and the Director of Capital Projects
have first reviewed and approved
each specific encroachment location
that the Permittee requests.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign a permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That nothing in this
ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right,
privilege, or permission to use, or to
attach or affix any object to poles;
Permittee shall obtain such permission from the respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching
objects permitted by this ordinance
shall conform to plans and specifications first approved by the Manager
of Engineering and Construction.
That Permittee shall obtain all other
required permits, including but not

25
limited to Building Permits, before
installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 5. That the permit shall
reserve reasonable right of entry to
the encroachment location to the City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Ord. No. 254-16.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance establishing a mapped setback along the North and South sides of West 6th Street between University Road and Marquardt Avenue (Map Change No. 2532).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That a mapped Building setback of 8 (eight) feet be established on the north and south sides of
West 6th Street (width varies) between University Road and Novak Court as shown on the attached maps.
Section 2. That a mapped Building setback of 6 (six) feet be established on the north and south sides of West
6th Street (width varies) between Herschel Court and Jefferson Avenue as shown on the attached maps.
Section 3. That a mapped Building setback of 6 (six) feet be established on the north and south sides of West
6th Street (width varies) between Jefferson Avenue and Marquardt Avenue as shown on the attached maps.
Section 4. That the change of zoning of lands described in Sections 1-3 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2532, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk
of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for
this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

581

The City Record

26

Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective May 4, 2016.

582

April 13, 2016

April 13, 2016
Ord. No. 292-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute a deed of easement granting
to the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company certain easement rights
in property located in Highland Park
Cemetery, and declaring that the
easement rights granted are not needed for the City’s public use.
Whereas, the Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company (“CEI”) has
requested the Director of Public
Works to convey certain easement
rights in property located in Highland Park Cemetery; and
Whereas, CEI requires an easement
to install new electrical service located on a portion of the cemetery for use
by the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the easement rights to be
granted are not needed for the City’s
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
an easement interest in the following
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:
DESCRIPTION OF 0.618 ACRES
Electric Utility Easement
City of Cleveland
Highland Park Cemetery
3550 S Green Rd
Situated in the State of Ohio, County of Cuyahoga, City of Cleveland,
Village of Highland Hills, being part
of the original 441.749 acres tract
described in a deed to City of Cleveland by deed of record in Deed Volume___, Page ___ (no record deed
located, see Auditor’s Record for a
deed description of said 441.749 acres
tract, approved by the Council on
November 10, 1902, filed on November
11, 1902 and recorder on November 28,
1902) and known as being part of the
Original Lot Numbers 56, 57, 66 and 67
of Warrensville Township, said 0.618
acres being part of said Original Lot
57. All references to records herein
are those located in the Recorder’s
Office of Cuyahoga County, Ohio and
being more particularly described as
follows:
Commencing at a monument found
in the centerline intersection of Chagrin Blvd (66' width) with the centerline intersection of S Green Road (60'
width), same being the northeast corner of said Outlot number 57 and also
the north line of the grantor’s tract;
Thence S 89 degrees 37 minutes 19
seconds W a distance of 1885.16 feet
with the centerline of Chagrin Blvd,
the north line of said Outlot number
57 and the grantor’s north line to a
point, said point being the northerly
extension of the west edge of pavement of an entrance driveway to
Highland Park Cemetery;
Thence S 00 degrees 04 minutes 08
seconds W a distance of 171.43 feet
with the northerly extension and the
west edge of pavement of the
entrance driveway to a point, said
point being the south edge of pavement of said entrance driveway;

The City Record
Thence S 84 degrees 16 minutes 24
seconds W a distance 155.65 feet with
the south edge of pavement of the
entrance driveway to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING;
Thence the following 28 courses
and distances across the grantor’s
tract:
1 - S 05 degrees 56 minutes 44 seconds W a distance of 42.87 feet to a
point;
2 - S 03 degrees 14 minutes 17 seconds E a distance of 373.70 feet to a
point;
3 - S 23 degrees 54 minutes 52 seconds E a distance of 67.38 feet to a
point;
4 - S 06 degrees 09 minutes 14 seconds E a distance of 50.93 feet to a
point;
5 - S 03 degrees 01 minutes 55 seconds W a distance of 99.28 feet to a
point;
6 - S 09 degrees 06 minutes 13 seconds W a distance of 37.39 feet to a
point;
7 - S 04 degrees 06 minutes 14 seconds W a distance of 262.22 feet to a
point;
8 - S 12 degrees 35 minutes 53 seconds W a distance of 84.82 feet to a
point;
9 - S 24 degrees 11 minutes 48 seconds W a distance of 76.28 feet to a
point;
10 - S 60 degrees 29 minutes 17 seconds W a distance of 61.02 feet to a
point;
11 - S 67 degrees 30 minutes 11 seconds W a distance of 35.29 feet to a
point;
12 - N 90 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds W a distance of 45.75 feet to a
point;
13 - N 43 degrees 06 minutes 59 seconds W a distance of 135.00 feet to a
point;
14 - N 46 degrees 53 minutes 01 seconds E a distance of 20.00 feet to a
point;
15 - S 43 degrees 06 minutes 59 seconds E a distance of 126.33 feet to a
point;
16 - N 90 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds E a distance of 33.10 feet to a
point;
17 - N 67 degrees 30 minutes 11 seconds E a distance of 30.08 feet to a
point;
18 - N 60 degrees 29 minutes 17 seconds E a distance of 53.24 feet to a
point;
19 - N 24 degrees 11 minutes 48 seconds E a distance of 67.69 feet to a
point;
20 - N 12 degrees 35 minutes 53 seconds E a distance of 81.31 feet to a
point;
21 - N 04 degrees 06 minutes 14 seconds E a distance of 261.61 feet to a
point;
22 - N 09 degrees 06 minutes 13 seconds E a distance of 37.20 feet to a
point;
23 - N 03 degrees 01 minutes 55 seconds E a distance of 96.61 feet to a
point;
24 - N 06 degrees 09 minutes 14 seconds W a distance of 46.20 feet to a
point;
25 - N 23 degrees 54 minutes 52 seconds W a distance of 67.91 feet to a
point;
26 - N 03 degrees 14 minutes 17 seconds W a distance of 378.95 feet to a
point;
27 - N 05 degrees 56 minutes 44 seconds E a distance of 40.35 feet to a
point in the south edge of pavement of
entrance driveway;

583

27
Thence N 84 degrees 16 minutes 25
seconds E a distance of 20.42 feet with
the south edge of pavement of
entrance driveway to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING; containing
0.618 acres of land more or less.
The above described area contains
a total of 0.618 acres within Cuyahoga
County Auditor’s Parcel Number 75101-003, which includes 0.000 acres in
the present road occupied.
Grantor claims title by Instrument
recorded in Deed Volume___, Page ___
(no record deed located, see Auditor’s
Record for a deed description of said
441.749 acres tract, approved by the
Council on November 10, 1902, filed on
November 11, 1902 and recorder on
November 28, 1902) in the records of
Cuyahoga County, Ohio.
Bearings used in this description
are based on Ohio State Plane Coordinate System, North Zone as per NAD
83.
This description was prepared from
existing records and a field survey
performed within the months of January, 2015 thru December, 2015.
Resource International, Inc. Mark
S. Ward, P.S. Professional Surveyor
No. S-7514
Section 2. That the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized
to convey the above-described easement interest to CEI subject to any
conditions stated in this ordinance, at
a price of $1.00 and other valuable
consideration, which is determined to
be fair market.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to install new
electrical service located on a portion
of the cemetery for use by the City of
Cleveland.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that the
easement shall not be assignable
without the consent of the Director of
Public Works; that the easement
shall require that CEI provide reasonable insurance, maintain any CEI
improvements located within the
easement; pay any applicable taxes
and assessments; and shall contain
such other terms and conditions that
the Director of Law determines to be
necessary to protect and benefit the
City.
Section 5. That the conveyance referenced above shall be made by official deed of easement prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Director of Public Works on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The Directors
of Public Works and Law are authorized to execute any other documents,
including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as may be
necessary to effect this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Ord. No. 293-16.
By Council Members Conwell, K.
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to

28
execute a deed of easement granting
to OneCommunity certain easement
rights in property located along East
Boulevard in Wade Park, and declaring that the easement rights granted
are not needed for the City’s public
use.
Whereas,
OneCommunity
has
requested the Director of Public
Works to convey certain easement
rights in property located along East
Boulevard in Wade Park; and
Whereas, OneCommunity requires
an easement to install a fiber line
needed for the Cleveland Museum of
Natural History Museum expansion
project; and
Whereas, the easement rights to be
granted are not needed for the City’s
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
an easement interest in the following
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR
PROPOSED 5' WIDE FIBER OPTIC
EASEMENT, WITHIN
PERMANENT PARCEL
No. 120-36-001
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 394, and
being bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a monument box with
an iron pin found at the northerly
right of way line of East Boulevard,
and the centerline of East 108th
Street:
Thence South 05° 22' 14" East, 68.50
feet, to the southerly curb line of East
Boulevard, and being The Principal
Place of Beginning;
Thence South 05°31'20" East, 5.03
feet, to a point;
Thence South 78°04'46" West,
109.59 feet, to a point;
Thence South 81°26'46" West,
150.17 feet, to a point;
Thence South 82°01'46" West, 79.63
feet, to a point;
Thence South 73°29'46" West, 81.13
feet, to a point;
Thence South 1°01'40" East, 73.95
feet, to a point, along the face of the
building;
Thence along the face of the building, South 73°23'25" West, 5.19 feet, to
a point;
Thence North 1°01'40" West, 79.14
feet, to a point;
Thence North 73°29'46" East, 85.30
feet, to a point;
Thence along the southerly curb of
East Boulevard, North 82°01'46" East,
80.00 feet, to a point;
Thence
continuing
along
the
southerly curb of East Boulevard,
North 81°26'46" East, 150.00 feet, to a
point;
Thence along the southerly curb of
East Boulevard, North 78° 04'46"
East, 110.00 feet to The Principal
Place of Beginning and containing
0.0573 acres of land as calculated and
described by Norman R. Hoovler, P.S.
8259 for AECOM in February 2016.
This legal description is intended
to describe a new 5' wide fiber optic

The City Record
line easement, for the Cleveland
Museum of Natural History, leased
from the City of Cleveland.
Lease area subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
Section 2. That the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized
to convey the above-described easement interest to OneCommunity subject to any conditions stated in this
ordinance at a price determined to be
fair market value by the Board of
Control.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to install a fiber
line needed for the Cleveland Museum
of Natural History Museum expansion project.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that the
easement shall not be assignable
without the consent of the Director of
Public Works; that the easement
shall require that OneCommunity provide reasonable insurance, maintain
any OneCommunity improvements
located within the easement; pay any
applicable taxes and assessments;
and shall contain such other terms
and conditions that the Director of
Law determines to be necessary to
protect and benefit the City.
Section 5. That the conveyance referenced above shall be made by official deed of easement prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Director of Public Works on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The Directors
of Public Works and Law are authorized to execute any other documents,
including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as may be
necessary to effect this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Ord. No. 337-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Public Safety and
Justice
Services,
Public
Safety
Grants, for the FY14 State Homeland
Security Grant Program - Aviation;
and authorizing the director to
acquire a video downlink system and
any necessary user licenses.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the amount of
$130,875.30, from the Cuyahoga County Public Safety and Justice Services,
Public Safety Grants for the FY14
State Homeland Security Grant Program - Aviation; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for

584

April 13, 2016
the purposes set forth in the award
letter for the grant contained in the
file described below.
Section 2. That the award letter for
the grant, File No. 337-16-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the acquisition of a video downlink system and
any necessary user licenses, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis,
for the Department of Public Safety.
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from the fund or funds to which
are credited the grant accepted under
this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Ord. No. 338-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Public Safety and
Justice
Services,
Public
Safety
Grants, for the FY15 State Homeland
Security Grant Program - LE; and
authorizing one or more requirement
contracts for the purchase of computer equipment and smartphone applications related to the records management system upgrade.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the amount of
$50,000, from the Cuyahoga County
Public Safety and Justice Services,
Public Safety Grants for the FY15
State Homeland Security Grant Program - LE; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the #7 Revised
Final letter from the County for the
grant contained in the file described
below.

April 13, 2016
Section 2. That the #7 Revised
Final letter from the County for the
grant, File No. 338-16-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements during the
grant term of the necessary items of
handheld computers and smartphone
applications, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division
of Police, Department of Public Safety. Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Ord. No. 380-16.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit or permits to Downtown Cleveland Alliance, its successors and assigns, to encroach into the
public right-of-way of various locations within the Downtown Cleveland
Alliance Service Area with banners to
be attached to utility poles (by separate permission); and authorizing
Downtown Cleveland Alliance to
coordinate a banner program for the
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

The City Record
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit or permits, revocable at the
will of Council, to Downtown Cleveland Alliance, its successors and
assigns (“Permittee”), to encroach
into the public right-of-way by
installing, using, and maintaining
banners to be attached to utility poles
(by separate permission for the use of
the pole from the entity that owns or
controls the pole) at various locations
within the rights-of-way in the area
described and designated on the map
in File No. 380-16-A. The Director of
Capital Projects shall determine the
specific locations to be included in
each encroachment permit after considering visibility of existing signs,
traffic signals and safety signs, clearance requirements, and other relevant factors. Permittee may assign
the permit only with the written consent of the Director of Capital Projects. The Director of Capital Projects
shall notify the local council representative when an encroachment permit is requested.
Section 2. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered to
grant to Permittee any right, privilege, or permission to use, or to attach
or affix any object to poles. Permittee
shall obtain that permission from the
respective pole owner, including the
City of Cleveland’s Division of Cleveland Public Power.
Section 3. That the encroaching
structures permitted by this ordinance will be placed within the public
right-of-way as identified and determined in Section 1, and will be constructed in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. Permittee shall obtain all other
required permits before installing the
encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit or permits
authorized by this ordinance and
shall incorporate any additional provisions as the director determines
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit or permits
shall be issued only when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, Permittee
has properly indemnified the City
against any loss that may result from
the encroachments permitted.
Section 5. That each Permit shall
reserve reasonable right of entry to
the City.
Section 6. That Downtown Cleveland Alliance shall have the authority
to coordinate a banner program in the
area described in Section 1. In coordinating the banner program, Downtown Cleveland Alliance shall comply
with any guidelines of the Cleveland
Planning Commission regarding banner programs. Each banner to be
affixed shall be reviewed and
approved by the local design review
committee.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

585

29
Ord. No. 381-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 74-16, passed February 1,
2016, relating to accepting the gift of
Cisco WiFi equipment, access points
with mounting brackets, and licenses
for the Cisco Wireless Controller.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 74-16,
passed February 1, 2016, are amended
to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to accept
a gift from Presidio Networked Solutions, Inc. of Cisco WiFi equipment,
access points with mounting brackets, and licenses for the Cisco Wireless Controller.
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to accept a gift
of Cisco WiFi equipment and lighting, up to fifteen (15) access points
with mounting brackets, and licenses
for the Cisco Wireless Controller,
from Presidio Networked Solutions,
Inc.
(“Presidio”),
valued
at
$209,805.00.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Presidio to effectuate
the gift and the agreement shall
include, but not be limited to, terms
that provide warranties to the City
and indemnification of the City for
infringement and other potential
claims.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
74-16, passed February 1, 2016, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Ord. No. 412-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Office of Capital Projects to issue a
permit to the Friends of Jefferson
Park to stretch banners near 13220
Lorain Avenue, for the period from
July 24, 2016 to August 23, 2016, inclusive, publicizing the Rock Around the
Park Classic Car Show & Jumpin’ at
Jefferson events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Office of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to the
Friends of Jefferson Park to stretch
banners near 13220 Lorain Avenue,
for the period from July 24, 2016 to

The City Record

30
August 23, 2016, inclusive, publicizing
the Rock Around the Park Classic Car
Show & Jumpin’ at Jefferson events;
inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Office of Capital Projects, in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so as
not to interfere with any sign erected
and maintained under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner of any pole from
which a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall
be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

Ord. No. 419-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cummins, K. Johnson and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the Director of Capital Projects to enter
into
c ontrac t
with
S c hirm er
Construction, LLC for the immediate

purchase of labor, equipment, and
materials necessary for the installation
of a new bridge over Old Pearl Road
stone arch.
Whereas, the Ohio Department of
Transportation has determined that
the bridge over Old Pearl Road stone
arch is at risk of imminent failure;
and
Whereas, it is necessary to begin
emergency installation of a new
bridge over Old Pearl Road stone arch
in order to maintain the ingress and
egress necessary for the businesses in
the area; and
Whereas, Schirmer Construction,
LLC previously submitted a proposal
for the bridge project and is available
to begin work on the project immediately; and
Whereas, the Director of Capital
Projects has determined based on considerations of bridge construction
capability and experience, immediate
availability, quality, cost, and safety,
that the City should contract with
Schirmer Construction, LLC for the
immediate purchase of labor, equipment, and materials necessary to
install a new bridge over the Old
Pearl Road stone arch; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
S ec tion 1 . T hat the Direc tor of
Capital Projects is authorized to make
a written contract with Schirmer
Construction, LLC, for the immediate

April 13, 2016
purchase of labor, equipment, and
materials necessary for the installation
of a new bridge over the Old Pearl
Road s tone arc h, inc luding all
components, to be purchased by the
C om m is s ioner of Purc has es and
Supplies upon a unit basis, for the
Office of Capital Projects, for an
estimated cost of $977,090.00.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF
534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF 546, 20 SF 554, 20
SF 563, 20 SF 568, and any and all
funds approved by the Director of
Finance. (RQS 0103, RL 2016-22)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 4, 2016.
Effective April 7, 2016.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday April 11, 2016
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Keane, Pruitt,
Zone. Authorized Absence: Conwell,
Mitchell.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Amend Ord. No. 345-16 — Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art
and music instruction to City of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the
Arts — Community Development Department (Ward(s) 02,05,and 12 CRF) (O 438-16) . . . . . .
Amend Ord. No. 74-16 — Cisco Wi-Fi equipment — gift — Logicalis — Presidio (O 381-16) . . . . . . .
Ashbury Senior Computer Community Center Training Program — computer training classes for
adults and seniors citizens — Ashbury Community Services, Inc. — Community
Development (Ward 09 CRF) (O 433-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Building Community Bridges Program — providing community collaborative workshops —
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — Community Development (Ward 07 CRF)
(O 439-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chester Ave., 1301-1325 — Shaia Parking Inc. — lease option to purchase and sale agreement —
operating a parking lot — Community Development (Ward 03) (O 260-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crescent Ave. and West 53rd St. — Parcels A, B, and C — The Great Lakes Towing Company —
project agreement — Economic Development — Utilities Department (O 432-16) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

Appreciation
Thompson, Joyce L. (R 451-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Banners
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area — encroach into right-of-way — attached
to utility poles — Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 380-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
Friends of Jefferson Park — Lorain Ave., 13220 — July 24 to Aug. 23 — Rock Around the Park
Classic Car Show & Jumpin — Capital Projects Office (Ward 16) (O 412-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585

586

April 13, 2016

The City Record

31

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Brookside Boulevard, 4014 (Ward 16) — Makina Management Inc., owner — appeal resolved
on 4/6/16 (Doc. A-25-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 111th Street, 2891 (Ward 6) — Patrick Slaughter, owner — appeal adopted on 4/6/16
(Doc. A-10-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 3434 (Ward 2) — Yavonda Mosley, owner — appeal resolved on
4/6/16 (Doc. A-20-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 126th Street, 2513 (Ward 6) — Bruce & Janine Johnson, owners — appeal resolved on
4/6/16 (Doc. A-24-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 128th Street, 3247 (Ward 4) — Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 4/6/16 (Doc. A-16-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 176th Street, 1118 (Ward 8) — Kema LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 4/6/16
(Doc. A-22-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 3594 (Ward 12) — Lamont Weakly, owner — appeal resolved on 4/6/16
(Doc. A-27-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 77th Street, 1108 (Ward 9) — Linda Newsome, owner — appeal withdrawn on 4/6/16
(Doc. A-23-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Easton Avenue, 9523 (Ward 6) — Rochelle Sessor, owner — appeal adopted on 4/6/16
(Doc. A-18-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greenwich Lane, 11213 (Ward 2) — Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 4/6/16 (Doc. A-15-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Halle Avenue, 7403 (Ward 3) — REZ Properties LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 4/6/16
(Doc. A-9-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lenacrave Avenue, 11914 (Ward 2) — Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 4/6/16 (Doc. A-14-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Melgrave Avenue, 16300 (Ward 17) — Alan Jenkins, owner — appeal resolved on 4/6/16
(Doc. A-26-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
S. Waterloo Road, 15500 (Ward 8) — WRRS, LLC, owner — no action on 4/6/16 (Doc. A-45-16) . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 16700 (Ward 8) — WRRS, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
4/6/16 (Doc. A-29-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triskett Road, 14312 (Ward 17) — John P. Martin, owner — appeal resolved on 4/6/16
(Doc. A-270-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 133rd Street, 3777 (Ward 16) — Hala Smadi, owner — appeal resolved on 4/6/16
(Doc. A-21-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th Street, 2138 (Ward 3) — Elizabeth Edwards and Janice Edwards, owners — appeal
adopted on 4/6/16 (Doc. A-11-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 95th Street, 2109 (Ward 15) — Lakeside Reo Ventures, LLC, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 4/6/16 (Doc. A-17-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodbridge Avenue, 3543 (Ward 14) — Michael Rivas, owner — appeal resolved on
4/6/16 (Doc. A-28-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574

Board of Control — Animal Care & Control Division
Nuisance wildlife trapping and removal — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Danielle’s Services dba
Critter Control of Cleveland — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 143-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 82nd Street (Ward 7) — PPNs 106-22-006/174 — amend BOC Res. 26-16 from Phyllis J.
Wilson to Phyllis J. Wilsohn (BOC Res. 147-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
Ohio City, Inc. — various parcels on scattered sites (Ward 3) (BOC Res. 148-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Board of Control — Finance Department
Identification and procurement of insurance coverages for 2016 RNC — amend BOC Res.
131-16 (BOC Res. 149-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 82nd Street (Ward 7) — PPNs 106-22-006/174 — amend BOC Res. 26-16 from Phyllis J.
Wilson to Phyllis J. Wilsohn (BOC Res. 147-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
Ohio City, Inc. — various parcels on scattered sites (Ward 3) (BOC Res. 148-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Cummins engine parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Cleveland Freightliner, Inc. dba
Valley Freightliner Sterling & Western Star Trucks of Cleveland — Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 146-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
Radiators, heater cores, air charged coolers and fuel tanks — per C.O. Sec. 131.64
to Erie Shore Industrial Radiator, LLC — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 145-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Board of Control — Police Division
Hydration Packs — per Ord. 880-14 to Galls, LLC — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 144-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

587

The City Record

32

April 13, 2016

Interlocking Steel barriers — per Ord. 880-14 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 152-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Interlocking Steel Barriers — per Ord. 880-14 to Sonco Worldwide, Inc. — Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 151-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
Police Patrol bikes and bike helmets — per Ord. 880-14 to Safariland, LLC — Dept.
of Public Safety (BOC Res. 150-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Construction management and administration services — per 432-13 to Glaus, Pyle, Schomer,
Burns & DeHaven, Inc. (BOC Res. 142-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Construction management and administration services — per 432-13 to Glaus, Pyle, Schomer,
Burns & DeHaven, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 142-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564
Identification and procurement of insurance coverages for 2016 RNC — amend BOC Res.
131-16 — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 149-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Hydration Packs — per Ord. 880-14 to Galls, LLC — Division of Police (BOC Res. 144-16) . .
Interlocking Steel barriers — per Ord. 880-14 — all bids rejected — Division of Police
(BOC Res. 152-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Interlocking Steel Barriers — per Ord. 880-14 to Sonco Worldwide, Inc. — Division
of Police (BOC Res. 151-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nuisance wildlife trapping and removal — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Danielle’s Services dba
Critter Control of Cleveland — Division of Animal Care & Control (BOC Res. 143-16) .
Police Patrol bikes and bike helmets — per Ord. 880-14 to Safariland, LLC — Division of
Police (BOC Res. 150-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Cummins engine parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Cleveland Freightliner, Inc. dba
Valley Freightliner Sterling & Western Star Trucks of Cleveland — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 146-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
Radiators, heater cores, air charged coolers and fuel tanks — per C.O. Sec. 131.64
to Erie Shore Industrial Radiator, LLC — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 145-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Cummins engine parts and labor — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 to Cleveland Freightliner, Inc. dba
Valley Freightliner Sterling & Western Star Trucks of Cleveland — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 146-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hydration Packs — per Ord. 880-14 to Galls, LLC — Division of Police, Dept. of
Public Safety (BOC Res. 144-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Interlocking Steel barriers — per Ord. 880-14 — all bids rejected — Division of Police,
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 152-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Interlocking Steel Barriers — per Ord. 880-14 to Sonco Worldwide, Inc. — Division
of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 151-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nuisance wildlife trapping and removal — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Danielle’s Services dba
Critter Control of Cleveland — Division of Animal Care & Control, Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 143-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Police Patrol bikes and bike helmets — per Ord. 880-14 to Safariland, LLC — Division of
Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 150-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Radiators, heater cores, air charged coolers and fuel tanks — per C.O. Sec. 131.64
to Erie Shore Industrial Radiator, LLC — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 145-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadway Avenue, 9411 (Ward 12) — Community Assessment & Treatment Services, owner —
appeal heard on 4/11/16 (Cal. 16-43) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chester Avenue, 6100 (Ward 7) — Geis Companies — appeal granted and adopted on 4/11/16
(Cal. 16-9). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 101st Street, 1900 (Ward 7) — Innova Phase 2 L.P., owner — appeal heard on 4/11/16
(Cal. 16-28) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 30th Street, 1593 (Ward 7) — Hom Family Ltd. Partnership, owner — appeal heard on
4/11/16 (Cal. 16-42). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 59th Street, 1959 (Ward 7) — Hemingway Development — appeal granted and adopted on
4/11/16 (Cal. 16-8). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th Street, 2685 (Ward 5) — The Opal Industrial Group LLC, owner — appeal denied
and adopted on 4/11/16 (Cal. 16-38) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

588

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573

April 13, 2016

The City Record

33

Freeman Avenue, 1901 (Ward 3) — 1901 Freeman LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
4/11/16 (Cal. 16-36). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Freeman Avenue, 1903 (Ward 3) — 1901 Freeman LLC, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
4/11/16 (Cal. 16-37). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hancock Avenue, 2910 (Ward 3) — Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp., owner, and
Michael Horton — appeal granted and adopted on 4/11/16 (Cal. 16-31). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 3908 (Ward 3) — Malta Hall Association, owner — appeal heard on 4/11/16
(Cal. 16-44) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 3908 (Ward 3) — Malta Hall Association, owner — appeal withdrawn on
4/11/16 (Cal. 16-45). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Munn Road, 15529 (Ward 17) — Charles Barrett, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 4/11/16 (Cal. 16-33) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Road, 19001 (Ward 10) — NB Cleveland, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 4/11/16
(Cal. 16-40) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 16117 (Ward 8) — Argee Industries, Inc., owner — appeal withdrawn on
4/11/16 (Cal. 16-2). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Starkweather Avenue, 781 (Ward 3) — Kristen McCann and Jonathan Rose, owners — appeal
heard on 4/11/16 (Cal. 16-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Road, 15202 (Ward 8) — Meir Besit Trust, owner — appeal postponed to 5/23/16
on 4/11/16 (Cal. 16-6) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 29th Street, 2168 (Ward 3) — Cuyahoga County Land Revitalization Corp., owner, and
Michael Horton — appeal granted and adopted on 4/11/16 (Cal. 16-32). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 573

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Detroit Avenue, 5304 (Ward 15) — Jose Casiano, owner — appeal to be heard on
4/25/16 (Cal. 16-48). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 12408 (Ward 6) — Euclid Lakeview, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 4/25/16 (Cal. 16-66) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Happy Dog Mobile Food (Ward 14) — Lucky Dogs, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/25/16
(Cal. 16-50) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Boulevard, 17636 (Ward 8) — Gerald Westmoreland, owner — appeal to be heard
on 4/25/16 (Cal. 16-51) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Magnolia Drive, 11125 (Ward 9) — Cleveland Music School Settlement, owner — appeal to
be heard on 4/25/16 (Cal. 16-49) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 7114 (Ward 10) — Eishons House, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 4/25/16 (Cal. 16-52) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th Street, 1549 (Ward 15) — Ingens Development, LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 4/25/16 (Cal. 16-46) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 571

Building and Housing Department
Exterior Walls and Appurtenances — enact new Chapter 3143 (O 1533-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578
Portable Storage Containers — amend Sections 327.99 and enact Section 337.231 (O 440-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562

Capital Projects
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area — encroach into right-of-way — attached
to utility poles — Downtown Cleveland Alliance — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(O 380-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Everstream Solutions, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — fiber optic
cable, duct banks, and vaults — CPP utility poles — City Planning Commission
(O 192-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Extending the moratorium on the review and issuance of land filling permits (O 39-16) . . . . . . .
Friends of Jefferson Park — Lorain Ave., 13220 — July 24 to Aug. 23 — Rock Around the Park
Classic Car Show & Jumpin -banners (Ward 16) (O 412-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Installation of a new bridge over Old Pearl Road stone arch — Schirmer Construction, LLC —
professional service contracts (O 419-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation Project — appropriate property — constructing
and maintaining a sewer along Scranton Rd. — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(O 430-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton-Carter Rehabilitation Project — Carter Rd. — sell parcels — Lake Link LLC —
Finance Department (Ward 03) (O 116-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd St., — encroach into right-of-way — installing and maintaining a building
foundation — Battery Park Development, LLC — City Planning Commission (Ward 15)
(O 429-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 586

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

City of Cleveland Bids
2016 Summer Food Service Program Breakfast and Lunch (Re-bid) — Department of Public
Works — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 1293-15 — bid due May 4, 2016 (advertised
4/13/2016 and 4/20/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
Aviation Maintenance and Labor — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per
C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due April 27, 2016 (advertised 4/6/2016 and 4/13/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
Highland Park Cemetery Mausoleum Improvements — Department of Public Works —
per Ord. 537-12 — bid due May 5, 2016 (advertised 4/13/2016 and 4/20/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575

589

The City Record

34

April 13, 2016

Horse Trailers (Re-bid) — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police —
per Ord. 880-14 — bid due April 22, 2016 (advertised 4/6/2016 and 4/13/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HVAC/R Supplies, Items, Materials and Parts — Department of Public Works — Division of
Property Management — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due April 27, 2016 (advertised 4/6/2016
and 4/13/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Personal Protection Equipment (Re-bid) — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police —
per Ord. 880-14 — bid due April 27, 2016 (advertised 4/13/2016 and 4/20/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pothole Repairs — Department of Public Works — Division of Streets — per C.O. Sec.
181.101 — bid due April 21, 2016 (advertised 4/6/2016 and 4/13/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rentals of Interlocking Steel Barriers (Re-bid) — Department of Public Safety — Division
of Police — per Ord. 880-14 — bid due April 27, 2016 (advertised 4/13/2016 and 4/20/2016) . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575

City Planning Commission
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
use District (Ward 15) (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Everstream Solutions, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — fiber optic
cable, duct banks, and vaults — CPP utility poles — Capital Projects
Office (O 192-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation Project — appropriate property — constructing
and maintaining a sewer along Scranton Rd. — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03)
(O 430-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St. (between University Rd., and Marquardt Ave.) — establish new setbacks
(Ward 03) (O 254-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581

Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI)
Highland Park Cemetery — grant easement — install new electrical service — Works
Department (O 292-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Everstream Solutions, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — fiber optic
cable, duct banks, and vaults — CPP utility poles — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (O 192-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581
Machines and equipment — repair and maintain — Water Division — Utilities Department
(O 431-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561
Paint poles and other street side elements — contracts — Utilities Department (O 362-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

Codified Ordinances
Extending the moratorium on the review and issuance of land filling permits —
Capital Projects Office (O 39-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579
Exterior Walls and Appurtenances — enact new Chapter 3143 — Building and Housing
Department (O 1533-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578
Portable Storage Containers — amend Sections 327.99 and enact Section 337.231 — Building
and Housing Department (O 440-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562

Community Development Department
Amend Ord. No. 345-16 — Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art
and music instruction to City of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the
Arts — agreement (Ward(s) 02,05,and 12 CRF) (O 438-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ashbury Senior Computer Community Center Training Program — computer training classes for
adults and seniors citizens — Ashbury Community Services, Inc. — agreement
(Ward 09 CRF) (O 433-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Building Community Bridges Program — providing community collaborative workshops —
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — agreement (Ward 07 CRF) (O 439-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chester Ave., 1301-1325 — Shaia Parking Inc. — lease option to purchase and sale agreement —
operating a parking lot (Ward 03) (O 260-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

Condolences
Brenner, Marc Leon (R 447-16) . . . . . . . . . . .
Brown, Willie Edward (R 450-16) . . . . . . . .
Chillious, Toni Renee (R 449-16) . . . . . . . . .
Crump, Hollis (R 454-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Garrett, Lucinda (Peoples) (R 448-16) . . . .
Rivers, Alice (Middlebrooks) (R 446-16) . .
Sudduth, Bobette Latrice Hurst (R 445-16)
Williams, Alisa Johnson (R 453-16). . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

590

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

559
559
559
559
559
559
559
559

April 13, 2016

The City Record

35

Contracts
Amend Ord. No. 345-16 — Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art
and music instruction to City of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the
Arts — agreement — Community Development Department (Ward(s) 02,05,and 12 CRF)
(O 438-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ashbury Senior Computer Community Center Training Program — computer training classes for
adults and seniors citizens — Ashbury Community Services, Inc. — agreement —
Community Development (Ward 09 CRF) (O 433-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Building Community Bridges Program — providing community collaborative workshops —
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — agreement — Community Development
(Ward 07 CRF) (O 439-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Installation of a new bridge over Old Pearl Road stone arch — Schirmer Construction, LLC —
professional service — Capital Projects Office (O 419-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Machines and equipment — repair and maintain — Water Division — Utilities Department
(O 431-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paint poles and other street side elements — Cleveland Public Power — Utilities Department
(O 362-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 586
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

Cuyahoga County
State Homeland Security Grant Program — Aviation (FY 14) — Cuyahoga County Public Safety
and Justice Services — Safety Department — Grant (O 337-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
State Homeland Security Grant Program — LE (FY 15) — Cuyahoga County Public Safety and
Justice Services — Safety Department — Grant (O 338-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584

Dominion East Ohio
Wade Oval Drive — easement to install a gas line — Works Department — East Ohio Gas
Company — Purchases and Supplies Division (Ward 09) (O 154-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580

Easements
East Blvd., in Wade Park — PPN 120-36-001 — install a fiber line — Cleveland Museum of
Natural History Museum — One Community — Works Department (Ward 09) (O 293-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
Highland Park Cemetery — install new electrical service — Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Co. — Works Department (O 292-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
Wade Oval Drive — install a gas line — Works Department — Dominion East Ohio Gas — East
Ohio Gas Company — Purchases and Supplies Division (Ward 09) (O 154-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580

Economic Development Department
Crescent Ave. and West 53rd St. — The Great Lakes Towing Company — project agreement —
Utilities Department (O 432-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

Encroachments
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area — right-of-way — attached to utility poles —
Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (O 380-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
Everstream Solutions, LLC — various locations — right-of-way — fiber optic cable, duct
banks, and vaults — CPP utility poles — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 192-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581
West 73rd St., — right-of-way — installing and maintaining a building foundation — Battery
Park Development, LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 15)
(O 429-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

Finance Department
Amend Ord. No. 74-16 — Cisco Wi-Fi equipment — gift — Logicalis — Presidio (O 381-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
Scranton-Carter Rehabilitation Project — Carter Rd. — sell parcels — Lake Link LLC —
Capital Projects Office — (Ward 03) (O 116-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579

Gifts
Amend Ord. No. 74-16 — Cisco Wi-Fi equipment — Logicalis — Presidio (O 381-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585

Grants
State Homeland Security Grant Program — Aviation (FY 14) — Cuyahoga County Public Safety
and Justice Services — Safety Department — Grant (O 337-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
State Homeland Security Grant Program — LE (FY 15) — Cuyahoga County Public Safety and
Justice Services — Safety Department — Grant (O 338-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584

591

The City Record

36

April 13, 2016

Leases
Chester Ave., 1301-1325 — Shaia Parking Inc. — lease option to purchase and sale agreement —
operating a parking lot — Community Development (Ward 03) (O 260-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

Liquor Permits
Brookpark Rd., 12820 — stock transfer application (Ward 16) (F 437-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Ave., 7804 — stock transfer application (Ward 06) (F 435-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 3612 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1063-15
(Ward 14) (R 423-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd St., 3560 — transfer of another taxing district — Economic Development
(Ward 06) (F 443-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th St., 1375 — transfer of another taxing district — Economic Development (Ward 03)
(F 434-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Rd., 3528-30 (1st. fl. & patio) — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal
Res. 106-16 (Ward 12) (R 420-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakewood Heights Blvd., 13609 — stock transfer application (Ward 16) (F 436-16). . . . . . . . . .
State Rd., 4380 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 121-16 (Ward 13) (R 421-16) .
State Rd., 4533 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 13) (F 444-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 3892 — withdraw objection to stock transfer — repeal Res. 48-16 (Ward 16)
(R 422-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 1923 — transfer of another taxing district — Economic Development
(Ward 03) (F 442-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

576
559
576
559

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Museum of Natural History
East Blvd., in Wade Park — PPN 120-36-001 — install a fiber line — One Community — Works
Department (Ward 09) (O 293-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
Installation of a new bridge over Old Pearl Road stone arch — Schirmer Construction, LLC —
professional service contracts — Capital Projects Office (O 419-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 586

Permits
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area — encroach into right-of-way — attached
to utility poles — Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 380-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Everstream Solutions, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — fiber optic
cable, duct banks, and vaults — CPP utility poles — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (O 192-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Extending the moratorium on the review and issuance of land filling permits —
Capital Projects Office (O 39-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Friends of Jefferson Park — Lorain Ave., 13220 — July 24 to Aug. 23 — Rock Around the Park
Classic Car Show & Jumpin — banners — Capital Projects Office (Ward 16) (O 412-16). . . .
West 73rd St., — encroach into right-of-way — installing and maintaining a building
foundation — Battery Park Development, LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 15) (O 429-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

Professional Services
Installation of a new bridge over Old Pearl Road stone arch — Schirmer Construction, LLC —
contracts — Capital Projects Office (O 419-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 586

Public Works
East Blvd., in Wade Park — PPN 120-36-001 — install a fiber line — Cleveland Museum of
Natural History Museum — One Community (Ward 09) (O 293-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Highland Park Cemetery — grant easement — install new electrical service — Cleveland
Electric Illuminating Co. (O 292-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Oval Drive — easement to install a gas line — Dominion East Ohio Gas — East Ohio
Company — Purchases and Supplies Division (Ward 09) (O 154-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
Gas
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580

Public Utilities
Crescent Ave. and West 53rd St. — The Great Lakes Towing Company — project agreement —
Economic Development (O 432-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Machines and equipment — repair and maintain — Water Division (O 431-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paint poles and other street side elements — contracts — Cleveland Public Power (O 362-16) . .
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation Project — appropriate property — constructing
and maintaining a sewer along Scranton Rd. — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (O 430-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

592

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

April 13, 2016

The City Record

37

Purchases and Supplies Division
Chester Ave., 1301-1325 — Shaia Parking Inc. — lease option to purchase and sale agreement —
operating a parking lot — Community Development (Ward 03) (O 260-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation Project — appropriate property — constructing
and maintaining a sewer along Scranton Rd. — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (O 430-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton-Carter Rehabilitation Project — Carter Rd. — sell parcels — Lake Link LLC —
Capital Projects Office — Finance Department (Ward 03) (O 116-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Oval Drive — easement to install a gas line — Works Department — Dominion East Ohio
Gas — East Ohio Gas Company (Ward 09) (O 154-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580

Recognition
Shah, Baiju R. (R 452-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Urge U.S. Senate — scheduling a hearing and confirmation vote- Judge Merrick Garland —
fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court (R 441-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562

Safety Department
State Homeland Security Grant Program — Aviation (FY 14) — Cuyahoga County Public Safety
and Justice Services — Grant (O 337-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584
State Homeland Security Grant Program — LE (FY 15) — Cuyahoga County Public Safety and
Justice Services — Grant (O 338-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 584

Ward 01
Chillious, Toni Renee — Condolence (R 449-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
Thompson, Joyce L. — Appreciation (R 451-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Ward 02
Amend Ord. No. 345-16 — Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art
and music instruction to City of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the
Arts — agreement — Community Development Department (Ward(s) 02,05,and 12 CRF)
(O 438-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
Brown, Willie Edward — Condolence (R 450-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
Williams, Alisa Johnson — Condolence (R 453-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Ward 03
Chester Ave., 1301-1325 — Shaia Parking Inc. — lease option to purchase and sale agreement —
operating a parking lot — Community Development (O 260-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area — encroach into right-of-way — attached
to utility poles — Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (O 380-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th St., 1375 — transfer of another taxing district — Economic Development — liquor
permit (F 434-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation Project — appropriate property — constructing
and maintaining a sewer along Scranton Rd. — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 430-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton-Carter Rehabilitation Project — Carter Rd. — sell parcels — Lake Link LLC —
Capital Projects Office — Finance Department (O 116-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 1923 — transfer of another taxing district — Economic Development — liquor
permit (F 442-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St. (between University Rd., and Marquardt Ave.) — establish new setbacks — City
Planning Commission (O 254-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581

Ward 04
Garrett, Lucinda (Peoples) — Condolence (R 448-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Ward 05
Amend Ord. No. 345-16 — Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art
and music instruction to City of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the
Arts — agreement — Community Development Department (Ward(s) 02,05,and 12 CRF)
(O 438-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
Crump, Hollis — Condolence (R 454-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

593

The City Record

38

April 13, 2016

Ward 06
Carnegie Ave., 7804 — stock transfer application — liquor permit (F 435-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
East 93rd St., 3560 — transfer of another taxing district — Economic Development — liquor
permit (F 443-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Ward 07
Building Community Bridges Program — providing community collaborative workshops —
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — agreement — Community Development
(Ward 07 CRF) (O 439-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
Rivers, Alice (Middlebrooks) — Condolence (R 446-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Ward 09
Ashbury Senior Computer Community Center Training Program — computer training classes
for adults and seniors citizens — Ashbury Community Services, Inc. — agreement —
Community Development (Ward 09 CRF) (O 433-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East Blvd., in Wade Park — PPN 120-36-001 — install a fiber line — Cleveland Museum of
Natural History Museum — One Community — Works Department (O 293-16) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sudduth, Bobette Latrice Hurst — Condolence (R 445-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Oval Drive — easement to install a gas line — Works Department — Dominion East Ohio
Gas — East Ohio Gas Company — Purchases and Supplies Division (O 154-16) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 583
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580

Ward 10
Brenner, Marc Leon — Condolence (R 447-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Ward 11
Portable Storage Containers — amend Sections 327.99 and enact Section 337.231 — Building
and Housing Department (O 440-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562

Ward 12
Amend Ord. No. 345-16 — Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art
and music instruction to City of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the
Arts — agreement — Community Development Department (Ward(s) 02,05,and 12 CRF)
(O 438-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
Independence Rd., 3528-30 (1st. fl. & patio) — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal
Res. 106-16 — liquor permit (R 420-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576

Ward 13
Shah, Baiju R. — Recognition (R 452-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
State Rd., 4380 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 121-16 — liquor
permit (R 421-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
State Rd., 4533 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 444-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Ward 14
Clark Ave., 3612 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1063-15 —
liquor permit (R 423-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576

Ward 15
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
use District — City Planning Commission (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
Urge U.S. Senate — scheduling a hearing and confirmation vote- Judge Merrick Garland —
fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court (R 441-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562
West 73rd St., — encroach into right-of-way — installing and maintaining a building
foundation — Battery Park Development, LLC — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 429-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560

Ward 16
Brookpark Rd., 12820 — stock transfer application — liquor permit (F 437-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Friends of Jefferson Park — Lorain Ave., 13220 — July 24 to Aug. 23 — Rock Around the Park
Classic Car Show & Jumpin -banners — Capital Projects Office (O 412-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakewood Heights Blvd., 13609 — stock transfer application — liquor permit (F 436-16) . . . . . .
Portable Storage Containers — amend Sections 327.99 and enact Section 337.231 — Building
and Housing Department (O 440-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 3892 — withdraw objection to stock transfer — repeal Res. 48-16 — liquor
permit (R 422-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

594

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576

April 13, 2016

The City Record

39

Water Division
Machines and equipment — repair and maintain — Utilities Department (O 431-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

Water Pollution Control (WPC)
Machines and equipment — repair and maintain — Water Division — Utilities Department
(O 431-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

Zoning
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
West 6th St. (between University Rd., and Marquardt Ave.) — establish new setbacks — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 254-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 581

Zoning Code
Portable Storage Containers — amend Sections 327.99 and enact Section 337.231 — Building
and Housing Department (O 440-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562

595

