The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

March the Twenty-Third, Two Thousand and Sixteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

14

Board of Control

14

Civil Service

18

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

18

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
20

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

20

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

20

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

20

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

21

Committee Meetings

33

Index

33

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy ........................................................4300 West 143rd Street
44135
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Christopher Diehl, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: Robin Wood, Law Librarian,
Room 100
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Robert L. Davis, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Fred Szabo, Interim Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Jeffrey Brown, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Frank D. Williams, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – ____________, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – _____________, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – Edward Jamison, Chief Animal Control Officer, 2690 West 7th
Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 15C
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 14C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Suzan Marie Sweeney – Courtroom 12C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Robert J. Furda
– Chief Bailiff; Dean Jenkins – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016

Vol. 103

No. 5337

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2015-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson (CHAIR), Dow (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Kazy, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
(VICECHAIR),
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Kazy, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Kazy, Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Kazy, Reed.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Mitchell (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Dow, Kelley.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Mitchell, Kelley, Keane,
Zone.
Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Polensek, Pruitt.

Dear Mr. Dreyer:
You are requested, without objection of Cleveland City Council, to
serve as Clerk of Council Pro Tempore for the purposes of the March
21, 2016.
Your assistance is appreciated.

Kelley
Keane,

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 21, 2016
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:01 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
TJ Dow, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Kenneth L. Johnson, Brian Kazy, Kevin
J. Kelley, Martin J. Keane, Mamie
J. Mitchell, Michael D. Polensek,
Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack Reed, and
Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief of Government Affairs
Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Regional Development Edward W. Rybka,
Media
Relations
Director
Dan
Williams, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Dumas, Davis, Szabo,
Spronz,
McGrath,
Cox,
O’Leary,
West,
Nichols,
Griffin,
Collier,
Fumich, Ambroz and Burrows.
No. 2926-76, the opening prayer
was offered by Associate Pastor
Robert Saffold, Zion Chapel Missionary Baptist Church, Cleveland,
Ohio (Ward 1). Pledge of Allegiance.

Sincerely,
Kevin J. Kelley,
Council President
Received.
File No. 375-16.
From Director Michael E. Cox,
Department of Public Works, City of
Cleveland. Notice of grant acceptance of $1,000 to support the Halloran Park Hockey program from
Celena Zevnik through the Cleveland Foundation. Received.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 369-16.
Nycole West, Interim Director of
Department of Human Resources,
City of Cleveland. Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 370-16.
RE: #9351373. Transfer of Ownership Application, D5 D6. Walbridge
Enterprises, 3029 Woodhill Road
(Ward 4). Received.
File No. 371-16.
RE: #65172421525. New License
Application, C2. Ohio CVS Stores
LLC, 10825 Kinsman Road (Ward 4).
Received.
File No. 372-16.
RE: #8177560. New License Application, D5J. Simply Greek Uptown
LLC, 11454 Uptown Avenue (Ward
6). Received.

MOTION

CONDOLENCE RESOLUTION

On the motion of Council Member
Mitchell, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Keane.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
by a rising vote:

COMMUNICATIONS

CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS

File No. 374-16.
March 21, 2016
Allen Dreyer
Deputy Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 220
Cleveland, Ohio 44114

419

Res. No. 376-16 — Linda DarnellJohnson Wooten.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 377-16 — Margo Hudson.
Res. No. 378-16 — Sokolowski
Family.

The City Record

4
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 379-16 — Knights of Peter
Claver and Ladies Auxiliary — 78th
Annual Northern States District Conference.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 362-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to paint poles and other
street side elements, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period
of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements period of
two years of the necessary items of
labor and materials to paint poles and
other street side elements, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by

separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 2004, RL 2016-8)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 363-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with

March 23, 2016
Cleveland Housing Network for professional
services
necessary
to
administer energy, water, and sewer
conservation programs and other
related services for low-income utility
customers, for the Divisions of Water,
Cleveland Public Power, and Water
Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one year,
with one one-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Cleveland
Housing Network for professional
services necessary to administer
energy, water, and sewer conservation programs and other related services for low-income utility customers, in the total sum of $967,500,
for the Divisions of Water, Cleveland
Public Power, and Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one year, with one
one-year option to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Utilities.
The contract or contracts shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 54 SF
001, and 58 SF 001, Request No. RQS
2002, RL 2016-14.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Utilities, Finance.

Ord. No. 364-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal Section 348.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1536-14, passed January 26, 2015, relating to the Urban Form Overlay District; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new Sections 348.01 through 348.05, relating to Urban Form Overlay
Districts and Urban Core Overlay Districts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 348.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1536-14, passed January 26, 2015, is repealed.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are supplemented by enacting new Sections
348.01 through 348.05 to read as follows:
CHAPTER 348
FORM DISTRICTS
Section 348.01 Definitions
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as stated below:
(a) “Active uses” are those uses that generate customer or visitor traffic such as retail, restaurants, personal
services, offices, residential uses, and building lobbies. Uses that are not considered active uses include but are
not limited to, non-habitable spaces, hallways, storage, mechanical, utility spaces, trash rooms or areas, loading
docks, parking, or similar.
(b) “Balcony” means an exterior space or platform that projects from the wall of a building and includes a
railing or balustrade.
(c) “Block” means the aggregate of private lots, pedestrian passages, and alleys circumscribed by street right
of ways (ROWs).
(d) “Block length” means the distance between the intersection of two street ROWs, measured at the street
line.
(e) “Frontage build-out” means the portion of the principal and secondary street frontage containing a building.
(f) “Human-scaled materials” are defined as 12" maximum width in either the vertical or the horizontal dimension. The other dimension is unlimited. Examples include brick, stone, wood, fiber-cement lap siding, terra cotta,
or similar materials.

420

March 23, 2016

The City Record

5

(g) “Liner building” means a building that is placed between a street line and off-street parking in order to
screen the parking from the public ROW.
(h) “Open sales lot” means open land that is used or occupied for the purpose of buying, selling, or storing
prior to sale passenger cars, trucks, motor scooters, motorcycles, boats, trailers, recreational vehicles, manufactured homes, cemetery monuments, nursery plants or supplies, or other merchandise.
(i) “Plaza” means an open space available to the public for civic purposes and commercial activities. A plaza
shall be spatially defined by building frontages. Its landscape shall consist primarily of pavement. Plazas are
often located at the intersection of important streets. Plazas generally range from 1/8 acre to 2 acres in size.
(j) “Secondary street frontage” means that on corner lots, all street lines that are not the principal frontage
are considered secondary street frontages; also known as the side street frontage.
(k) “Square” is an open space available to the public for unstructured recreation and civic purposes. A square
shall be spatially defined by building frontages. Its landscape shall consist of paths, lawns and trees, formally
disposed. Squares are generally located at the intersection of important streets. Squares may range from 1 acre
to 5 acres in size.
(l) “Stoop” means an entrance wherein the facade of the main building is aligned close to the urban frontage
line with the first-story elevated from the sidewalk for privacy, with an exterior stair and landing at the entrance.
(m) “Streetscreen” means a freestanding wall built along the street line, in the front or sideyard setback, or
coplanar with the main building facade. Where permissible, it may mask a parking lot from the ROW, provide
privacy to a side yard, and/or strengthen the spatial definition of the public realm.
(n) “Street line” means the lot line dividing the lot from a street, under Chapter 325 of this Code.
(o) “Urban frontage line” means that side or sides of a public street frontage that is specifically designated
on the Zoning Map.
(p) “Urban street space” means that portion of a building or property located at or closest to the level of the
public sidewalk and within forty (40) feet of an urban frontage line.
Section 348.02 Frontage Features
One of the following features shall be required on principal street frontages:
Porch
Terrace or lightwell
Forecourt
Stoop; 12 sq. ft. min.
Shopfront
Gallery; 8 ft. min. depth
Arcade; 8 ft. min. depth

421

The City Record

6

March 23, 2016

Section 348.03 Applicability
In a district created under this chapter, the regulations of the underlying zoning district shall govern except
where in conflict with the regulations of the applicable district created under this chapter, in which case the regulations of the applicable district created under this chapter shall govern.
Section 348.04 Urban Form Overlay (UF) District
(a) Purpose. The Urban Form Overlay (UF) District is established to foster a high level of walkability and
design quality for Cleveland’s urban streets. The UF will do this by requiring pedestrian-oriented building features, preserving and enhancing the architectural character of new and existing buildings and protecting public
safety by minimizing conflicts between vehicles and pedestrians.
(b) Mapping. Areas designated as UF Districts are planned to be densely developed areas characterized by a
preponderance of buildings set relatively close to the street with parking located behind the main building. In
every UF District, any street frontage to be considered an “Urban Frontage Line,” as defined in this section, shall
be marked on the Zoning Map, with either one or both sides of a street designated as such.
(c) Use Regulations. All uses permitted in the underlying zoning district shall be permitted in the UF District,
except that the following uses shall be regulated as follows:
(1) Open sales lots are prohibited;
(2) Gas station pump islands are prohibited within the urban street space;
(3) Any business served by a drive-thru shall have all points of customer interaction located outside of the
urban street space; and
(4) A parking lot as a main use is prohibited.
(d) New Construction and Additions

(1) Setbacks
A. Front yard depth; principal
street frontage

B. Front yard depth;
secondary street frontage

Single-family, two-family,
townhouse:

All other building types:

0 ft. min., 10 ft. max.

0ft. min., 8 ft. max.

Single-family, two-family,
townhouse:

All other building types:

0 ft. min., 6 ft. max.

0 ft. min., 6 ft. max.

C. Interior side yard depth

0 ft. min.

D. Rear yard depth

3 ft. min.

(2) Building Configuration
A. Frontage build-out; principal
street frontage

80% min. of principal street frontage; 20% of this
requirement may be met with a streetscreen
Streetscreens shall be masonry and min. 3.5' in height

B. Frontage build-out, secondary
street frontage

100% min. of the urban street space

C. Active use; first story principal
and secondary street frontage

Required on 60% of frontage buildout

D. Floor area ratio

No max

E. Entrances

Single-family,
two-family,
townhouse:

Multi-family
residential:
from a principal
or secondary

All other
building types:

Each first-story
unit fronting a
principal or
secondary street
shall provide a
main pedestrian
entrance to that
principal or
secondary street
frontage;

Required: At least
one main
pedestrian entrance
street frontage:

Required: Each
use fronting a
principal or
secondary street
frontage shall
provide a main
pedestrian
entrance to
that frontage.
Such entrance
shall be recessed
to prevent doors
swinging over the
ROW, including
patio space in
the ROW, under
Section 3109.03.

422

March 23, 2016
F. Height of finished
first floor above grade

The City Record

7

First-story residential: 18 in. min., 5.5 ft.
max, building lobby may be at 0 ft.

First-story
non-residential:
0 ft. min

(3) Building Design Features
A. First-story glazing,
non-residential; principal
and secondary street

75% min. of the frontage buildout between 3' and 8'
above grade (excluding streetscreens) shall be
transparent windows and doors

B. First-story glazing,
residential: principal and
secondary street

45% min. of the frontage buildout between 3' and 8'
above grade shall be transparent windows & doors

C. Architectural
articulation required:

Single-family, two-family,
townhouse:

All other building types:

Balconies, bays, awnings, sunshades,
planter boxes, or similar

Required on 50% min. of
facing both the principal and
secondary street frontage;
balconies, if used, shall be 1 ft.
min. depth; balcony railing
transparency: 30% min.

Not required

D. Materials; principal and secondary
street frontage

First-story: Glass in any dimension is permitted.
All other materials shall be human-scaled, except materials used
on building bases (up to 3 ft. above grade) may be larger in size.
Above first-story:
Materials in any dimension are permitted.
Prohibited: plain and split-face concrete masonry units,
synthetic stucco, vinyl siding

(4) Parking, Garages & Valet
A. Required parking

Surface lots:
Min: 25% of total required by
349.04, Max: 120% of total
required by 349.04

Garage or structured:
Min: 25% of total required
by 349.04, Max: none

B. Parking access, drives and
garage access

Single-family,
Two-family:

Townhouse:

All other building
types:

Where a secondary street frontage or
alley abuts the property, no access is
permitted on a principal street frontage

10 ft. max.
width/lot

Two-way traffic:
18 ft. width max.

20 ft. max.
aggregate width per
frontage;

One-way traffic:
10 ft. width max.;
20 ft. max. aggregate
width per frontage

10 ft. max. opening
height for parking
entrances; 14 ft. max.
opening height for
service access

Prohibited: Garage doors facing a
principal or secondary street frontage unless
located behind the rear wall of the main
building
Garage doors perpendicular to secondary
street frontage:
Permitted; 3.5 ft. tall masonry streetscreen
required
Alley: Unlimited
C. Surface parking; location

Primary street frontage: Behind the rear wall of the main building1

D. Parking lot aisle width

22 ft. max.

E. Parking and drive aisles
between a front building wall
and the public ROW

Prohibited

F. Valet zones

Shall not reduce existing sidewalk width, or shall maintain 8'
min. through pedestrian sidewalk zone.

423

The City Record

8

March 23, 2016

1. Where no alley or side street abuts the property, off-street parking between the main building actual front
setback and the rear wall of the main building shall be permitted, however limited to one, single loaded row of
parking spaces adjacent to the main building. A masonry streetscreen min 3.5 ft. min. in height shall be required
between the permitted parking and the public ROW.

(5) Transition Strips and Screening
A. Secondary street frontage

3 ft. min. deep landscape strip and streetscreen required
Streetscreens shall be masonry and a min. 3.5' in height

B. Interior Side

Not required

C. Rear abutting a lies intensive use

6 ft. high screen element, 100% opacity

D. Screening of structured parking and
enclosed parking

Liner building along principal and secondary street frontages
required. Height of Liner Building shall be equal to or greater than
the height of the parking structure. Frontage build-out of liner
building shall be equal to or greater than the width of the
structured or enclosed parking it screens, less permitted access
openings. Liner building shall meet all the requirements of
any Overlay District in which it is located.

(e) For purposes of this section, “principal street frontage” means the side or sides of a public street frontage
that is specifically designated on the Zoning Map or where there is only one street frontage, it is the street line.
(f) Variances
(1) An applicant seeking a variance shall submit a site plan, color elevations, and other requested drawings
as requested or necessary to compare and contrast a code compliant building with the proposed non-compliant
building. Such exhibits shall demonstrate, based upon a preponderance of competent, probative evidence as evaluated under the guidelines set forth in division (g)(2) below, that the standard for granting a variance has been
met.
(2) To ensure the development of a safe and cohesive district, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall have limited authority to grant variances from the following specific provisions of the UF District requirements.
A. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have no authority to grant a variance to eliminate the requirement for
the first-story of a liner building. Where the Board of Zoning Appeals grants a variance to eliminate the requirement for a liner building above the first-story, all building facades above the first-story shall have architectural
treatments that screen the view of parking from the ROW by the use of walls, glazing, decorative screens, durable
plantings, or similar materials. Exposed structural spandrels are prohibited.
B. Parking Requirements. The Board may grant a variance above the maximum amount of parking spaces permitted by this section, where the applicant has either shown a good faith effort to first utilize district parking,
on-street parking and /or secure shared-use agreements with adjacent property owners or has agreed to make its
parking lot available for shared parking with neighboring businesses.
Section 348.05 Urban Core Overlay
(a) Purpose. The Urban Core Overlay (UC) District is established to foster the development of dense, vibrant,
mixed-use neighborhoods that encourage a quality pedestrian experience. The UC achieves this goal for urban
cores by setting forth requirements for consistent street walls, pedestrian-oriented building features, minimizing
conflicts between vehicles and pedestrians, and screening of off-street parking and service areas.
(b) Mapping. The UC District may be overlayed on any zoning district where authorized by ordinance of Council. Areas designated as UC Districts are planned to be developed in accordance with the purpose set forth herein.
(c) Use Regulations. All uses permitted in the underlying zoning district shall be permitted in the UC District,
except that the following uses as regulated below:
(1) Open sales lots are prohibited;
(2) Any establishment served by a drive-through lane providing access to windows or other facilities at which
food or merchandise can be ordered or picked up, or business can be transacted by a person in a motor vehicle
is prohibited when accessed from a principal or secondary street frontage.
(d) New Construction and Additions

(1) Block Length
A. Block length

500 ft. max.; No development shall cause a net increase in
existing block length.

B. Block perimeter

1400 ft. max.

C. Mid-block pedestrian connection
or public alley

Block lengths over 400 ft.

(2) Setbacks
A. Front yard depth; principal
street frontage

Single-family, two-family,
townhouse:

424

All other building types above
the ground floor:

March 23, 2016

B. Front yard depth; secondary
street frontage

The City Record

9

0 ft. min., 10 ft. max.

80% of frontage build-out: 0 ft. to
3 ft. max., or equivalent ground
plane area
20% of frontage build-out: 12 ft.
max., or equivalent ground
plane area

Single-family, two-family,
townhouse:

All other building types above
the ground floor:

0 ft. min., 6 ft. max.

80% of frontage build-out: 0 ft. to
3 ft. max., or equivalent ground
plane area
20% of frontage build-out: 12 ft.
max., or equivalent ground
plane area

C. Interior side yard depth

0 ft. min.

D. Rear yard depth

0 ft. min.

(3) Building Configuration
A. Frontage build-out, principal and
secondary street frontage

90% min.; the frontage build-out requirement may be met with a
streetscreen, plaza, or square for up to 10% of the street frontage.
Streetscreens shall be 3.5' in height min.
Streetscreens screening non-active uses shall be 6' in height
min. and shall have 50% opacity min.

B. Active use; first-story

Required on 70% of each of the principal and secondary
street frontages

C. Building height

Minimum building height at actual setback shall be 1/2 the width
of the street ROW on which the building fronts. (ex. where a
building fronts a 60' right of way ROW, minimum building height
shall be 30')
Maximum height shall be as regulated by the underlying Height
District.

D. Floor area ratio

No max.

E. Entrances

Single-family,
two-family,
townhouse:

Multi-family
residential:

All other building
types:

Each first-story unit
fronting a principal
or secondary street
shall provide a main
pedestrian entrance
to that principal or
secondary street
frontage;

Required: At least
one main pedestrian
entrance from a
principal or
secondary street
frontage.
to that frontage.

Required: Each use
fronting a principal
or secondary street
frontage shall
provide a main
pedestrian entrance
Such entrance shall
be recessed to
prevent doors
swinging over the
ROW, including patio
space in the ROW,
under Section 3109.03.

F. Height of finished first floor
above grade

G. First-story height; non-residential,
principal and secondary street frontages

First-story residential:
18 in. min., 5.5 ft. max, subject
to increase of up to 3 ft. to
accommodate slope across site.
Building lobby may be at 0 ft.
0 ft. min.

First-story non-residential:

11 ft. min. finished floor to finished ceiling

(4) Building Design Features
A. First-story glazing, non-residential

60% min. of each of the principal and secondary street frontages
between 3' and 8' above grade shall be transparent windows & doors

B. First-story glazing, residential

30% min. of each of the principal and secondary street frontages
between 3' and 8' above grade shall be transparent windows & doors

425

The City Record

10

March 23, 2016

C. First-story articulation; frontage
build-out

One vertical break required at intervals not to exceed 60 ft.
(ex. piers, columns, and/or 3" min. change in facade plane)

D. Architectural articulation required:
Balconies, bays, awnings, sunshades,
planter boxes, or similar

Single-family, two-family,
All other building types:
townhouse:
Required on 50% min. of all
Not required.
units facing each of the principal
and secondary street frontages;
Balconies, if used, shall be 1 ft.
min. depth, and railings shall
have minimum 30% transparency.

E. Materials; principal and secondary
street frontage

Single-family, two-family,
townhouse:
Glass in any dimension is
permitted. All other materials
shall be human-scaled, except
materials used on building bases
(up to 4 ft. above grade) may be
larger in size.
Prohibited: plain and split-face
concrete masonry units,
synthetic stucco, vinyl siding

All other building types:
Prohibited: plain and split-face
concrete masonry units,
synthetic stucco, vinyl siding

(5) Parking, Loading & Garages
A. Required parking

None

B. Screening of surface parking,
structured parking, and enclosed parking

Liner building or facade along principal and secondary street
frontages that does not appear as a parking structure required.
Height of liner building or facade shall be equal to or greater than
the height of the parking structure, and no less than required
by division (f)(3)C. building height.
Frontage build-out of liner building or facade shall be equal to or
greater than the width of the surface parking, structured parking,
or enclosed parking it screens, less permitted access openings.
Liner building shall meet all the requirements of any
Overlay District in which it is located.

C. Parking access, drives, garages, and
service access

Single-family,
two-family:

Townhouse:

All other building
types:

Where a secondary street frontage or
alley abuts the property, no access is
permitted on a principal street frontage

10 ft. max. width/lot

Two-way traffic: 18 ft.
width max. One-way
traffic: 10 ft. width
max.; 20 ft. max.
aggregate width
per frontage

Max. single opening
width: 24 ft.
Max. opening height
for service access:
14 ft. Max. opening
height for parking
entrance: 10 ft.

Prohibited: Garage
doors facing a
principal street
frontage

Aggregate width of
openings per
development phase
shall not exceed the
number of street
frontages of the
development phase
multiplied by 24 ft.

Alley: Unlimited
D. Valet Zones Shall not reduce existing sidewalk width, or shall maintain 8' min. through pedestrian
sidewalk zone.

(e) For purposes of this section, “principal street frontage” means the street line where the principal building
entrance and address are located.
(f) The Commission may approve an application under this section with design and dimensional elements that
are in accordance with the following standards when the site plans, color elevations, or other drawings demonstrate the proposed building configuration, design, or garage better meet the purpose of the Urban Core Overlay:
A. Frontage build-out should not be less than 60% on each of the principal and secondary street frontages;
B. Active use on the first-story should not be less than 50% on each of the principal and secondary street
frontages;
C. First-story non-residential glazing should not be less than 50% on each of the principal and secondary street
frontages;
D. Garage doors facing a principal or secondary street frontage for single-family, two-family and townhouse
units should be no wider than 10 feet.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.

426

March 23, 2016
Ord. No. 365-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of City Planning
and Capital Projects to apply for and
accept grants from the Ohio Department of Transportation for the Safe
Routes to School Program; and determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing
infrastructure improvements; authorizing the appropriate director to
enter into one or more public improvement contracts and professional services contracts; and authorizing contracts and agreements with the State
of Ohio, Cleveland Metropolitan
School District, and other entities
needed to implement the grant; and to
app-apply for and accept and grants
or gifts from any public or private
entity to implement this ordinance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of City
Planning and Capital Projects are
authorized to apply for and accept
grants in the approximate aggregate
amount of $460,000, and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term from the Ohio
Department of Transportation to conduct the Safe Routes to School Program; that the Directors are authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grants; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the infrastructure
and non-infrastructure information
sheets for the grants contained in the
file described below.
Section 2. That the infrastructure
and non-infrastructure information
sheets for the grants, File No. 365-16A, made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, are approved in all
respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing
infrastructure improvements under
the grant (the “Improvement”), for
the Office of Capital Projects, by one
or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement.
Section 4. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 5. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 6. That the Director of City
Planning, Capital Projects, or other
appropriate director, is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one or

The City Record
more consultants or one or more firms
of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to implement the Safe Routes to
School travel plan.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the appropriate director from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the appropriate director for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the appropriate director
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 7. That the Directors of City
Planning, Capital Projects, or other
appropriate director, is authorized to
apply for and accept grants or gifts
from any public or private entity to
implement this ordinance.
Section 8. That the Director of City
Planning, Capital Projects, or other
appropriate director, is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts and
agreements with the State of Ohio,
Cleveland Metropolitan School District, and other entities needed to
implement the grant.
Section 9. That the costs of the contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited any grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance
or any gifts received for the purposes
of this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
Ord. No. 366-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. PS 2014-113 with Solar
Testing Laboratories, Inc. to provide
quality assurance, quality control
and surveying services, for the
Department of Port Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 365-13, passed April 1,
2013, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. PS 2014-113
with Solar Testing Laboratories, Inc.
to provide quality assurance, quality
control and surveying services, for
the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 365-13
requires further legislation before
exercising the second option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

427

11
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
second option to renew Contract No.
PS 2014-113 for an additional year
with Solar Testing Laboratories, Inc.
to provide quality assurance, quality
control and surveying services, for
the Department of Port Control. This
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 365-13 to exercise this
option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 367-16.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to add the
name “James A. Garfield Way” as a
secondary name to Euclid Avenue
between Coltman Road and Lakeview
Road.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name James A. Garfield Way
shall be added as a secondary name to
Euclid Avenue between Coltman
Road to Lakeview Road.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 380-16.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit or permits to Downtown Cleveland Alliance, its successors and assigns, to encroach into the
public right-of-way of various locations within the Downtown Cleveland
Alliance Service Area with banners to
be attached to utility poles (by separate permission); and authorizing
Downtown Cleveland Alliance to
coordinate a banner program for the
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit or permits, revocable at the
will of Council, to Downtown Cleveland Alliance, its successors and
assigns (“Permittee”), to encroach
into the public right-of-way by
installing, using, and maintaining
banners to be attached to utility poles
(by separate permission for the use of

12
the pole from the entity that owns or
controls the pole) at various locations
within the rights-of-way in the area
described and designated on the map
in File No. 380-16-A. The Director of
Capital Projects shall determine the
specific locations to be included in
each encroachment permit after considering visibility of existing signs,
traffic signals and safety signs, clearance requirements, and other relevant factors. Permittee may assign
the permit only with the written consent of the Director of Capital Projects.
Section 2. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered to
grant to Permittee any right, privilege, or permission to use, or to attach
or affix any object to poles. Permittee
shall obtain that permission from the
respective pole owner, including the
City of Cleveland’s Division of Cleveland Public Power.
Section 3. That the encroaching
structures permitted by this ordinance will be placed within the public
right-of-way as identified and determined in Section 1, and will be constructed in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. Permittee shall obtain all other
required permits before installing the
encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit or permits
authorized by this ordinance and
shall incorporate any additional provisions as the director determines
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit or permits
shall be issued only when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, Permittee
has properly indemnified the City
against any loss that may result from
the encroachments permitted.
Section 5. That each Permit shall
reserve reasonable right of entry to
the City.
Section 6. That Downtown Cleveland Alliance shall have the authority
to coordinate a banner program in the
area described in Section 1. In coordinating the banner program, Downtown Cleveland Alliance shall comply
with any guidelines of the Cleveland
Planning Commission regarding banner programs.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 368-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch a banner at East 55th Street
and Scovill Avenue near East Technical High School, for the period from
May 25, 2016 to June 24, 2016, inclusive, publicizing the Annual Ward 5
Family Festival.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding the
provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of the Department
of Capital Projects is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch a banner at East 55th Street
and Scovill Avenue near East Technical High School, for the period from
May 25, 2016 to June 24, 2016, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Capital Projects, in
consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere
with any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner of
any pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial
advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner and said banner shall be removed promptly upon
the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 373-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
the Department of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Bellaire-Puritas Development
Corporation for the Summer Safety
Education Film Series through the
use of Ward 16 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development into agreement effective June 1,
2014 with the Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation for the Summer
Safety Education Film Series for the
public purpose of providing safety
education programming on drug use,
violence and crime prevention to city
of Cleveland residents through the
use of Ward 16 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $7,500 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the

428

March 23, 2016
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 922-15.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by amending
section 347.07 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 737-01,
passed May 20, 2002, relating to adult
entertainment.
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on
Development Planning and Sustainability, when amended, as follows:
1. Insert new Sections 2 and 3 to
read as follows:
“Section 2. That existing Section
347.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 737-01, passed May
20, 2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.”.
2. In Section 1, at amended Section
347.07, strike division (b)(2)A. in its
entirety and insert: “A. The cleft
of the buttocks, anus, male or
female
genitals,
or
the
female
breast.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 23-16.
By Council Members Mitchell, K.
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to accept, acquire, and
record certain easement interests
from The Cleveland Clinic Foundation on East 96th Street between
Euclid Avenue and Carnegie Avenue
for the use of a public sidewalk.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 75-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to

March 23, 2016
enter into an agreement with the
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District to accept funding in support of
the Department of Public Safety’s
Environmental Crimes Task Force
for purposes, including but not limited to, the purchase of training and
equipment to assist in combatting
illegal dumping.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 76-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 135.065 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1344-08,
passed October 6, 2008, relating to the
purchase of firearms, ammunition,
helmets, tasers, and K-9 police dogs,
for the Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 152-16.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts with
Tyler Technologies fka New World
Systems, Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure dba Intergraph Corporation, and Winbourne Consulting, LLC
for the acquisition of software and
professional services necessary to
implement the upgrades to mobile
field reporting under the Law
Enforcement Record Management
System and the Computer Aided Dispatch System; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts needed in connection with the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 156-16.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into an Interconnection Agreement with Fred. Olsen Renewables
USA LLC, a subsidiary of a Norwegian company and assignee of the
Lake Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo), to implement the
offshore wind project known as Project Icebreaker; authorizing the
Director to enter into professional services, public improvement, and purchase contracts, leases and easements and other agreements needed
to implement the project; and authorizing the City to accept reimbursement of CPP’s costs.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 191-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue permits to Crown Castle NG
East LLC to encroach into public
rights-of-way within the City of
Cleveland by installing, using, and
maintaining distributed antenna system nodes to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power, the Illuminating Company, and AT&T utility poles (by separate permission of the poles’ owners), and by installing, using, and
maintaining duct banks connecting
existing AT&T manholes and ground
or pole cabinets for the nodes.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Municipal Services
and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 259-16.
By Council Members Zone, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with the Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan
Park District to allow improvements
to the former U.S. Coast Guard Station
and to accept the improvements as a
gift to the City; and authorizing the
director to enter into a property adoption agreement with the Park District
to maintain the improvements.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 291-16.
By Council Members Keane, Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. CAL 1989 for Concourse “C” and
Contract No. CAL 1997 for Concourse
“D” with United Airlines, Inc. fka Continental Airlines, Inc. to transfer certain ancillary facilities from one
lease to the other, to extend the term
of the Concourse “C” lease, and to
change other terms of the leases in
order to restate and memorialize United’s presence at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, for the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended
by Committees on Transportation,
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

429

13
Ord. No. 329-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Supreme Court of Ohio for the Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 334-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$625,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve municipal parks and
recreation facilities and authorizing
related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 335-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$4,750,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve buildings and structures housing and providing for the
discharge of governmental functions
and services otherwise benefiting the
public safety, health and welfare and
for the provision of necessary fixtures, furnishings, equipment, technology, appurtenances, utilities, and
site improvements for the purpose
and authorizing related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 336-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$22,750,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal
street system and related facilities
and authorizing related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1370-15.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Brancatelli.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of parcels south of Castle
Avenue and north of Buhrer Avenue
between I-71 and Quigley Road to a
Limited Local Retail or Open Space

14
Recreation, Changing the Area District to K, Changing the Height District to 2 and establishing an Urban
Form Overlay District as identified
on the attached map (Map Change
No. 2526).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 72-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An
ordinance
establishing
the
Rockport Design Review District
along West 130th Street between
Kirton Avenue and Astor Avenue as
shown shaded on the attached map.
(Map Change No. 2531).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 73-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height Districts of parcels
along the east and west sides of
West 130th Street, South of Erwin
Avenue to Sprecher Avenue to LLR
(Limited Retail), a ‘G’ area District
and a ‘2’ Height District as identified on the attached map (Map
Change No. 2530).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 118-16.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Mitchell, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An
ordinance
establishing
the
Opportunity Corridor Design Review
District on the north and south side
of the proposed Opportunity Corridor
roadway between East 55th Street
and Cedar Avenue as shown shaded
on the attached Map. (Map Change
No. 2527).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Development Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development
Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 158-16.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Broome Court N.W.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development
Planning and Sustainability.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 350-16.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution supporting House Bill 475, pending in the
Ohio House of Representatives, which
expands the Motion Picture Tax Credit.
by
Committee
on
Approved
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 125-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
appropriations and provide current
expenses for the daily operation of
all municipal departments of the
City of Cleveland for the fiscal year
from January 1, 2016 until December
31, 2016.
Read third time in full. Passed.
Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Cimperman recused himself from the vote
regarding Ordinance No. 125-16.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Mitchell, the absence of Council
Member Brian J. Cummins is hereby
authorized.
Seconded by Council
Member Keane.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:46 p.m. to meet on Monday, March
28, 2016, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chamber.

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 78-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the necessity and intention to appropriate an easement for public use in
connection with the Scranton/Carter
Road Rehabilitation project.

Allan Dreyer
Deputy Clerk,
Clerk of Council Pro Tempore

430

March 23, 2016
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
March 16, 2016
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, March 16, 2016
at 10:35 a.m. with Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Directors
Langhenry,
Davis, Interim Director Szabo, Director Cox, Interim Director WalkerMinor, Acting Director Withers, Acting
Director
Cosgrove,
Interim
Director West, Directors Fumich,
and O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Others: Tiffany White, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
Melissa Burrows, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
Matthew Spronz, Director, Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 103-16.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, and Resolution
No. 921-52, adopted by the Board of
Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of February,
2016
in
the
amount
of
$19,407.90, attached and made a part
of
this
resolution
is
received,
approved and ordered filed.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 104-16.
By Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on January 14, 2016
for an estimated quantity of handheld tools and hand-held power
tools, supplies and equipment, all
items, for various divisions of City
government, Department of Finance,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1222-14, passed the Council of the
City of Cleveland on September 29,
2014, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.

The City Record

March 23, 2016
Resolution No. 105-16.
By Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on January 29, 2016
for an estimated quantity of medical
supplies and equipment, Group B,
Items nos. 1, 3-7, 18, 59, 98, and 116119, for the various divisions of City
government, Department of Finance,
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101(a)14 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
rejected.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
Directors
Fumich,
and
West,
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 106-16.
By Director Davis.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by The Ryan Company, under Contract No. PI2014-55 for
the Ridge Road Ring Bus Project,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, is approved:
Work
Percentage

Subcontractor

Vantastic Crane Service,
Inc. (LPE)

$22,330.00
0%

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 107-16.
By Interim Director Szabo.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by Q & D Construction, a subcontractor to Cleveland
Construction, Inc., under City Contract No. PI2015*022 for the public
improvement of rehabilitating the
exterior terminal building facade
and the terminal ticketing lobby at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport under the authority of Ordinance No. 1587-09 and Ordinance No.
1588-09, both passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland on November 30, 2009 and Board of Control
Resolution No. 72-15, adopted March
11, 2015, is approved.
Subcontractors

CSB/MBE/FBE%
Amount

Brechbuhler Scales Inc.
0.000% non-certified
$3,900.00
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.

15

Resolution No. 108-16.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
sub-contractors by Capstone Construction Company, LLC, under City
Contract No. PI2014 - 60 for the public improvement of the New Fire Station 36, Division of Architecture and
Site Development, Office of Capital
Projects, under authority of Ordinance No. 533-12 passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland on June
4, 2012, and Board of Control Resolution No. 509-14, adopted November
5, 2014, is approved:
Sub Consultant
Percentage

MBE/FBE/CSB
Amount

Cunningham Paving
0.142%

CSB
$ 6,800.00

CK Insulation
0.715%

CSB/FBE
$34,300.00

Roof Recovery Systems
Non Certified
$23,400.00
0.000%
Apollo Control Systems
Non Certified
$17,200.00
0.000%
Gardiner Corp
0.000%

Non Certified
$64,405.00

R. H. Cochran &
Associates
0.000%

Non Certified
$ 6,300.00

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 109-16.
By Director Spronz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
sub-contractor by R.W. Clark Company Inc., under City Contract No.
PI2015-47 for the public improvement of the TV 20 Broadcast Studio
Improvements, Division of Architecture and Site Development, Office of
Capital Projects, under authority of
Ordinance No. 733-14 passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 9, 2014, and Board of Control
Resolution
No.
475-15,
adopted
November 25, 2015, is approved:
MBE/FBE/CSB
Amount

Sub Consultant
Percentage

M. Rivera Construction
0.000%

MBE
$990.00

Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 110-16.
By Director Spronz.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1523-14, passed by the

431

Cleveland City Council December 8,
2014 and Board of Control Resolution No. 116-15, adopted April 8, 2015,
the City, through the Director of
Projects
(“Director”),
Capital
into
City
Contract
No.
entered
PS2015*114 with Soil and Materials
Engineers, Inc. (SME) (“Engineer”)
to supplement the regular employed
staff of several departments of the
City to obtain the engineering services necessary for the Material
Testing, Geotechnical, Environmental, and General Engineering Services contract, in an amount not
exceeding $600,000.00; and
Whereas, the City requires additional engineering services for road
and bridge capital projects; and
Whereas, Engineer has proposed
by its February 15, 2016 letter to perform the above-described additional
engineering services for compensation of $400,000.00, to increase the
participation of certain sub-consultants for performance of the additional services; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1523-14, passed by the Cleveland
City Council December 8, 2014, that
the Director is authorized to enter
into a first modification to Contract
No. PS2015*114 with Soil and Materials Engineers, Inc., based upon its
February 15, 2016 proposal, for the
additional
engineering
services
needed for road and bridge capital
projects, and increasing the contract
amount by $400,000.00 to an amount
not to exceed $1,000,000.00.
Be it further resolved, that as a
result of the additional services to
be performed under the above-authorized first modification to Contract
No. PS2015-114, Resolution No. 116-15,
adopted April 8, 2015, is amended to
increase the participation amounts
of certain previously approved subconsultants as follows: Euthenics,
Inc.
(CSB)
is
increased
by
$100,000.00 to $200,000.00 (20.00%);
C.T. Consultants, Inc. is increased
by $190,000.00 to $280,000.00; and
TranSystems, Inc. is increased by
$110,000.00 to $140,000.00.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 111-16.
By Director Spronz.
Whereas, by Board of Control Resolution No. 72-16, adopted February,
24, 2016, under the authority of Ordinances
Nos.
581-15
and
1099-15,
passed by Cleveland City Council on
July 22, 2015 and October 26, 2015
respectively, the City, through the
Director of Capital Projects, selected Fabrizi Recycling, Inc. as the
lowest responsible bidder for the
public improvement of East 28th St.
(Community College Ave. to Central
Ave.), all items; and
Whereas, upon review, the City
has determined that applying the
bid discounts applicable to the bidders correctly results in Terrace
Construction Co., Inc. being the lowest responsible bidder for the project for bid comparison, now, therefore,

The City Record

16
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 72-16, adopted by this
Board February 24, 2016, is rescinded.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the bid of Terrace
Construction Co., Inc. for the public
improvement of East 28th St. (Community College Ave. to Central
Ave.) for the Division of Engineering & Construction, Office of Capital Projects, received on January 13,
2016, under the authority of OrdiNos.
581-15
and
1099-15,
nances
passed by Cleveland City Council on
July 22, 2015 and October 26, 2015
respectively, upon a unit basis for
the improvement, in the aggregate
amount of $1,938,222.13, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction Co., Inc., for the
above-mentioned
public
improvement is approved:
Rockport Construction
& Materials, Inc.
(CSB/FBE) — $460,164.00 — (23.74%)
The Vallejo Company
(CSB/FBE) — $113,400.00 — (5.85%)
Trafftech, Inc.
(CSB) — $7,936.00 — (0.41%)
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 112-16.
By Directors McGrath and Cox.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1471-15,
passed January 25, 2016, by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, by and at the
direction of the City Board of Control, to sell City-owned property
known as the Old Third District
Police Station Property located at
10600 Chester Avenue on Permanent
Parcels Numbers 119-20-018 and 11920-027, found and determined to be
no longer needed for public use and
more fully described in the ordinance, to UC City Center, LLC or its
designee (the “Redeveloper”) for
redevelopment, at a price not less
than $2,000,000 which has been
determined to be fair market value;
and
Whereas, additionally Ordinance
No. 1471-15 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
enter into an option agreement with
the Redeveloper for Redeveloper to
purchase certain City-owned property bounded by Chester Avenue to
the North, Euclid Avenue to the
South, Stokes Boulevard to the West,
and Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive
to the East, known as Permanent
Parcel Numbers 119-20-029, 119-20-030,
119-20-031 and 119-20-032 (“Existing
Greenspace Property”), found and

determined to be no longer needed
for the City’s public use and more
fully described in the ordinance, for
consideration not exceeding fair
market value as determined by the
Board of Control, and further authorizes the Commissioner, by and at
the direction of the Board of Control, to convey the Existing Greenspace
Property
to
Redeveloper
under the option to purchase agreement at a price not less than
$3,250,000 which has been determined to be fair market value; now
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Ordinance No. 1471-15, passed
January 25, 2016, by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
directed to sell the Old Third District Police Station Property to the
Redeveloper at a price not less than
$2,000,000 which has been determined to be fair market value.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that under Ordinance No.
1471-15, passed January 25, 2016, by
the Council of the City of Cleveland,
the consideration to be paid by
Redeveloper for the option to purchase the Existing Greenspace Property of $32,500, which is one percent
of the purchase price of $3,250,000,
is determined to not exceed fair
market value.
Be it further resolved that the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is directed to convey the Existing Greenspace Property to Redeveloper under the Option to Purchase Agreement at a price not less
than $3,250,000.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor is requested to execute and
deliver the official deed of the City
of Cleveland conveying the aforementioned
City-owned
properties,
which deed shall contain such additional terms and provisions as the
Director of Law shall determine are
necessary to protect and benefit the
City’s interests.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 113-16.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns and operates certain real property
commonly
known
as
the
Willard Park Garage under the
supervision and direction of the
Director of Public Works; and
Whereas, MVP Services, LLC has
proposed to offer valet parking services to the general public for the
Rock Hall Spring Benefit Event to
be held at Cleveland Public Auditorium by using the Willard Park
Garage; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Section 183.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works
is authorized to enter into a concession agreement with MVP Services, LLC to use Willard Park
Garage to offer valet parking services to the public for a fee per

432

March 23, 2016
event of $450.00 plus $5.00 per vehicle parked for the above-mentioned
event to be held at the Cleveland
Public Auditorium on May 6, 2016.
The concession agreement shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit public interest.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Director
Withers,
Acting
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
Directors
Fumich,
and
West,
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 114-16.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns and operates certain real propcommonly
known
as
the
erty
Willard Park Garage under the
supervision and direction of the
Director of Public Works; and
Whereas, MVP Services, LLC has
proposed to offer valet parking services to the general public for the
Cleveland Clinic Children’s Gala
Event to be held at the Cleveland
Convention Center by using the
Willard Park Garage; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Section 183.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Director of Public Works
is authorized to enter into a concession agreement with MVP Services, LLC to use Willard Park
Garage to offer valet parking services to the public for a fee per
event of $450.00 plus $5.00 per vehicle parked for the above-mentioned
event to be held at the Cleveland
Convention Center on May 7, 2016.
The concession agreement shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit public interest.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 115-16.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Zscape, LLC, for an estimated quantity of City-wide tree
planting, Items 1B through 23B, for
the Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties, Department of Public Works, for the period of one year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, with a one-year
renewal option, received on February 19, 2016, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 387-15, passed by
Cleveland City Council on May 18,
2015, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$285,165.00 (Net), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Works is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the specified
goods and/or services.

March 23, 2016
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all of the City’s
requirements for the specified goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Director
Withers,
Acting
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 116-16.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 016-21-020 located at 3540 West
49th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Diana L. Ables has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has either approved the
proposed sale or has not disapproved or requested a hold of the
proposed sale within 45 days of notification of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Diana L. Ables
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 016-21-020 located
at 3540 West 49th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.

The City Record
Resolution No. 117-16.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land ReutiProgram
(“Program”)
lization
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 116-20-069 located at 871 London
Road; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Brian Kesman has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Brian Kesman
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 116-20-069 located
at 871 London Road, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 118-16.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 137-23-092 and 137-23-093 located
on Angelus Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when

433

17
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Bobbie Jean Johnson
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcels for yard
expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Bobbie Jean
Johnson for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 13723-092 and 137-23-093 located on
Angelus Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels
shall be $400.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Director
Withers,
Acting
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 119-16.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 127-11-113 located at 9109 Marshall Avenue; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Myra Simmons has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has either approved the proposed sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,

18
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Myra Simmons
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 127-11-113 located
at 9109 Marshall Avenue, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Director
Withers,
Acting
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
West,
Directors
Fumich,
and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
Resolution No. 120-16.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 017-04-054 located at 3146 West
88th Street; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Auday Al Abdulla has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has either approved the
proposed sale or has not disapproved or requested a hold of the
proposed sale within 45 days of notification of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Auday Al Abdulla for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
017-04-054
located at 3146 West 88th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel

The City Record
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Langhenry, Davis,
Interim Director Szabo, Director
Cox, Interim Director Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Acting
Director Cosgrove, Interim Director
Directors
Fumich,
and
West,
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, and Nichols.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing will be notified of the results of
the examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
There-after, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of
the names of those candidates who
have been successful in all parts of
the examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY APRIL 4, 2016
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 16-033: 15529 Munn
Road (Ward 17)
Charles Barrett, owner, proposes
to build a 676 square foot two story,
21' - 10" high, wood frame garage
in an A1 Two-Family Residential
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 353.05 which states that
in a residence district an accessory
building shall not exceed fifteen
feet in height, or the distance from
the accessory building to a main
building or potential location of
main
building
on
an
adjoining
premises in a residence district,
whichever is less. Proposed garage
mean height is 19' - 11".

434

March 23, 2016
2. Section 337.23(a)(7)(A) which
states that in a residence district
the accessory garage shall be located a minimum of 18" from all property lines. The proposed garage’s
overhang and gutters are within 12
inches of the property line. (Filed
February 24, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-034: 3934 Lee Road
(Ward 1)
Strawbridge Family Corp., owner,
proposes to change use to a funeral
home. The owner appeals for relief
from the following sections of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 343.11(G) which states
that a funeral home is first permitted in the General Retail Business
District; The proposed location is in
the Local Retail Business District.
2. Section 357.14(a) which states
that a parking is not a permitted
front yard encroachment on Biltmore Avenue
3. Section 352.09 which states that
an eight (8) foot wide landscaped
transition strip is required where a
Local Retail Business District abuts
a Single Family Residence District
where no landscaped strip is proposed.
4. Section 352.10(c) which states
that a minimum six (6) foot wide
landscaped
frontage
strip
is
required for parking lots and none
are proposed. (Filed February 24,
2016)
Calendar No. 16-035: 2515 Jay Avenue
(Ward 3)
2515 Company LLC., owner, proposes to add use as Motor Vehicle
Sales Facility in a C1 Local Retail
District.
The
owner
Business
appeals for relief from Section 343.01
which states that Motor Vehicle
Sales Facility is not a permitted use
in a Local Retail Business District
but first permitted in a General
Retail Business. (Filed February 24,
2016)
Calendar No. 16-036: 1901 Freeman
Avenue (Ward 3)
1901 Freeman LLC, owner, proposes to erect a 26' x 37' - 6" three
story frame single family residence
with attached garage in a B1 MultiFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(b) which states
that The Required Minimum lot area
is 4,800 square feet and the appellant is proposing 3,432 square feet.
This section also states that the
Maximum Gross Floor Area shall
not exceed 50 percent of lot area or
in this case 1,716 square feet; the
appellant is proposing 2,062 square
feet. The required Minimum lot
width is 40' where the appellant is
proposing 34'.
2. Section 357.06(a) which states
that the required front yard setback
13' - 8" where the appellant is
proposing 10'.
3. Section 357.08(2)(b)(1) which
states that the required rear yard is
16' where the appellant is proposing
5' for the building and 4' for roof
eaves.
4.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10 feet from a
main building on an adjoining lot
within residence district where the
appellant is requesting 6'.

March 23, 2016
5.
Section
357.09(2)(C)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 8' where the appellant is
proposing 3' and 5'.
6. Section 357.13 which states that
the side street yard encroachments
of 4 feet-open-porch not allowed.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
7.
states that an open porch shall not
extend within 10 feet of property
line; proposing 1'. (Filed February
24, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-037: 1903 Freeman
Avenue (Ward 3)
1901 Freeman LLC, owner, proposes to erect a 26' x 37' - 6" three
story frame single family residence
with attached garage in a B1 MultiFamily Residential District. The
owner appeals for relief from the
following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 355.04(b) which states
that The Required Minimum lot area
is 4,800 square feet and the appellant is proposing 3,432 square feet.
This section also states that the
Maximum Gross Floor Area shall
not exceed 50 percent of lot area or
in this case 1,716 square feet; the
appellant is proposing 2,062 square
feet. The required Minimum lot
width is 40' where the appellant is
proposing 34'.
2. Section 357.06(a) which states
that the required front yard setback
13' - 8" where the appellant is
proposing 10'.
3. Section 357.08(2)(b)(1) which
states that the required rear yard is
16' where the appellant is proposing
5' for the building and 4' for roof
eaves.
4.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10 feet from a
main building on an adjoining lot
within residence district where the
appellant is requesting 6'.
5.
Section
357.09(2)(C)
which
states that the required interior side
yard is 8' where the appellant is
proposing 3' and 5'.
6.
Section
357.13(b)(4)
which
states that an open porch shall not
extend within 10 feet of property
line; proposing 1'. (Filed February
24, 2016)
Calendar No. 16-039: 15741 Mandalay
Avenue (Ward 8)
Mandalay Properties proposes to
use a City Land Bank parcel to
erect a 4,000 square foot building for
home winemaking seminars and
classes, accessory winery, wine and
grape sales, and walk-in-cooler, and
additional 8 car parking lot. The
owner appeals for relief from the
following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 337.03 which states that
the use is not permitted in two family residential district, first permitted in zoning districts ranging from
Multi-Family Residential to Local
Retail Business District.
2. Section 352.02 through 352.12
which states that an eight foot wide
landscaped transition strip providing 75% year round opacity is
required at the rear of the property,
and a six foot wide frontage strip
providing 50% year round opacity is
required where parking lot abuts
street. Landscaping plan required.
3.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that a 20 foot rear yard is

The City Record
required where a 13 foot rear yard
is provided. (Filed February 25,
2016)
POSTPONED FROM
FEBRUARY 16, 2016
Calendar No. 15-250: 2631 West 18th
Street (Ward 3)
Ohio Awning LLC, owner, proposes to construct a parking lot in a C1
Multi-Family Residential District.
The owner appeals for relief from
the following Sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 325.03 which states that
the minimum area for a parking
space is 180 square feet and 162
square feet are proposed.
2. Section 349.05 (a) which states
that no parking space shall be located within ten (10) feet of any wall
of a residential building.
3. Section 349.13(c)(1) through (8)
which states that parking lots in
residential district require approval
by the Board of Zoning Appeals for
compliance with the following standards:
• The lot is to be used only for
the parking of passenger automobiles of employees, customers or
guests of the person or firm controlling and operating the lot, who
shall be responsible for its maintenance;
• No charge is to be made for
parking on the lot;
• The lot is not to be used for
sales, repair work or servicing of
any kind;
• Entrance to and exit from the
lot are to be located so as to do the
least harm to the Residence District;
• No advertising sign or material
is to be located on the lot;
• All parking is to be kept back
of the setback building line by barrier unless specifically authorized
otherwise by the Board;
• The parking lot and that portion of the driveway back of the
building line are to be adequately
screened from the street and from
adjoining property in a Residence
District by a hedge, sightly fence or
wall not less than four (4) feet six
(6) inches high and not more than
five (5) feet high located back of
the setback building line. All lighting is to be arranged so that there
will be no glare that is annoying to
the occupants of adjoining property
in a Residence District, and the surface of the parking lot is to be
smoothly graded, hard surfaced and
adequately drained;
• The building permit number
under which the lot is established is
to be posted;
4. Section 358.04(a) which states
that the height of the fence cannot
exceed the distance of the fence line
to the neighbor’s house. (Filed
November 18, 2015 - No Testimony).
First postponement made at the
request of the Councilman. Second
postponement made at the request
of the appellant.
POSTPONED FROM
FEBRUARY 16, 2016
Calendar No. 16-008: 1959 East 59th
Street (Ward 7)
Hemingway Development, proposes to construct a building pad and
parking lot in a Midtown Mixed Use
District 4 (MMUD4) on City of
Cleveland Land Bank parcels. The

435

19
owner appeals for relief from the
following sections of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 325.03 which states that
off-street parking spaces shall be a
minimum of 180 square feet and 162
square feet are proposed.
Section
344.05(a)(1)
which
2.
states that the minimum building
setback in MMUD-4 District is 20'
where 10' are proposed.
3. Section 349.15(c) which states
that 9 bike rack spaces are required
and none are proposed.
4.
Section
352.10(c)(d)
which
states that six feet of a landscaped
frontage strip is required along
East 61 Street and none are proposed.
5. NOTE: a separate permit and
zoning review are required for the
proposed structures. (Filed January
20, 2016 - No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant.
POSTPONED FROM
FEBRUARY 16, 2016
Calendar No. 16-009: 6100 Chester
Avenue (Ward 7)
Geis Companies, proposes to construct a building pad and parking
lot in a Midtown Mixed Use District
2 (MMUD2) on City of Cleveland
Land Bank parcels. The owner
appeals for relief from the following
sections of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances:
1. Section 325.03 which states that
off-street parking spaces shall be a
minimum of 180 square feet and 162
square feet are proposed.
2.
Section
344.05(a)(1)
which
states that the minimum building
setback in MMUD-2 District is 20'
where 10' are proposed.
3. Section 349.15(c) which states
that 5 bike rack spaces are required
and none are proposed.
4.
Section
352.10(c)(d)
which
states that six feet of a landscaped
frontage strip is required along
East 63 Street and none are proposed.
5. NOTE: a separate permit and
zoning review are required for the
proposed structures. (Filed January
20, 2016 - No Testimony)
First postponement made at the
request of the appellant.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
14, 2016 the following appeal was
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
CORRECTION
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 15-249: 1345 West 73rd
Street
John C. Boehm, owner, proposes to
change use from factory to residential drug/alcohol recovery center for
30
maximum
residents
and
5
staff/employees in a B1 Residence
Industry District.

The City Record

20
REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
21, 2016 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 16-020: 12603 Buckeye
Road
Carlin and Sunnah McNary, owners, propose to establish use as a
barber shop in a C2 Residence-Office
District.
Calendar No. 16-23: 4304 West 191st
Street
Marilyn A. Lombardo, owner, proposes to construct a 15' x 20'
garage addition to existing single
family dwelling in and A1 One-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 16-25: 2052 West 44th
Street
B.R. Knez, prospective purchaser,
proposes to construct a 1,686 square
foot, two story single family residence on a 3,750 square foot Cleveland Landbank parcel in a B1 TwoFamily Residential District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

appeal

was

Calendar No. 15-236: 12523 Buckeye
Road
Howard Levine, owner, proposes
to construct a vocational school with
4 parking spaces in a C2 Residence
Office District.
following
The
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 15-249: 1345 West 73rd
Street
John C. Boehm, owner, proposes to
change use from factory to residential drug/alcohol recovery center for
30
maximum
residents
and
5
staff/employees in a B1 Residence
Industry District.

The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 16-004: 1616 West 25th
Street
Ojala properties, owner, proposes
to add use of hookah lounge to
existing restaurant with entertainment in a D3 Local Retail Business
District and a Pedestrian Retail
Overlay District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
appeals

were
NO MEETING

None.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:

PUBLIC NOTICE

Calendar No. 15-261: 11701 Corlett
Avenue
Darnell Dozier, owner, proposes to
establish
a
Residential/Halfway
House Substance Abuse Treatment
Program Facility in a C1 Multi-Family Residential District.

NONE

Calendar
No.
16-024:
1627
West
Schaaf Road
Robert Skirkenic, owner, proposes
to construct a new accessory 1,064
square foot three car garage in an
A1 One-Family Residential District.
The following cases were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 16-022: 5162 Broadway
Avenue
Community Assessment and Treatment Services. Postponed to April
25, 2016.
Calendar No. 16-028: 1900 East 101st
Street
Innova Phase 2 L.P. Postponed to
April 25, 2016.
The following case was heard by
the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, March 14, 2016 and the decisions were adopted and approved on
Monday, March 21, 2016:

and a ‘K’ area district as identified
on the attached map (Map Change
No. 2529).
Ord. No. 254-16.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An
ordinance
establishing
a
mapped setback along the North and
South sides of West 6th Street
between University Road and Marquardt Avenue (Map Change No.
2532).
Anthony Brancatelli, Chair
Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability
March 16, 2016 and March 23, 2016

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
The following case was heard by
the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Monday, March 7, 2016 and the decision was adopted and approved on
Monday, March 21, 2016:

were

None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

The
following
APPROVED:

March 23, 2016

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On Development, Planning
and Sustainability
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Tuesday, March 29, 2016
9:30 a.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on Development,
Planning and Sustainability will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217,
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on Tuesday, March 29, 2016, at 9:30 a.m., to
consider the following ordinances
now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 1511-15.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of parcels north of Clifton
Blvd, south of Lake Avenue between
West 117th Street and West 115th
Street
to
Townhouse
and
local
Retail districts, a ‘2’ height district

436

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016
File No. 41-16 — Grinding of Pavement, for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 140515, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 7,
2015.

March 23, 2016
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
IN
THE
SPECIFICATIONS
OF
TWENTY-FIVE
AMOUNT
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016 AT
2:00
P.M.
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
ROOM 25, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
March 16, 2016 and March 23, 2016
FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016
File No. 38-16 — 2016 Summer Food
Services Program - Camp Forbes,
for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 129315, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, November 9,
2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDAPRE-BID
MEETING,
TORY
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016 AT
10:30 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
THE
DIVISION
OF
HALL,
RECREATION, ROOM 8, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 39-16 — 2016 Summer Food
Service Program - 3 Month Breakfast & Lunches, for the Division
of
Recreation,
Department
of
Public Works, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1293-15, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, November 9, 2015.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL,
THE
DIVISION
OF
RECREATION, ROOM 8, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
March 23, 2016 and March 30, 2016
FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
File No. 42-16 — Sewer Test Tee
Inspection,
Installation
And
Snaking, for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 541-13,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 11, 1990.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016 AT
10:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
RED CONFERENCE ROOM, 12302
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.
File No. 43-16 — Labor & Materials
Necessary to Repair, Maintain
and Upgrade the Supervisory Control
and
Data
Acquisition
(SCADA) System, for the Division
of
Water
Pollution
Control,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 79614, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 2014.

The City Record
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016 AT
11:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
RED CONFERENCE ROOM, 12302
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.
March 23, 2016 and March 30, 2016

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1512-15.
By Council Members Dow, K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of the
first un-named alley North of Superior
Avenue N.E., East of East 21st Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of the first un-named alley
North of Superior Avenue N.E. , East
of East 21st Street., as described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
First un-named alley North of Superior Avenue N.E., East of East 21st
Street.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
Ten Acre Lots 106,107, 108, 109 and 110
as shown in the O.H. Payne’s Allotment, recorded in Volume 11, Page 51
of the Cuyahoga County Map Records
and further described as follows:
Being all that portion of the first
un-named alley (12.86 feet wide)
North of Superior Avenue N.E (132
feet wide), East of East 21st Street
(66 feet wide) extending from the
East right of way of said East 21st
Street easterly to its terminus.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Adopted March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Res. No. 1513-15.
By Council Members Conwell, K.
Johnson and Brancatelli (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Reserve Court N.E.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Reserve Court N.E., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,

437

21
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot 402 further
described as follows:
Being all the dedicated portions of
Reserve Court N.E. extending from
the East Right of way of East 105th
Street (width varies) to the West
right of way of Stokes Blvd. (60.00
feet wide) (formerly East 107th
Street).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Adopted March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Res. No. 339-16.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the TREX transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A, and D6 Liquor Permit to 6625 Denison Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the TREX transfer
of ownership of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit from Taqueria Mexico Tacox, Inc, Zachary B. Burkons
Rcvr, DBA Mi Pueblo, 12207 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 87992430010 to 6625 Denison,
LLC, 6625 Denison Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
Permanent
Number
8200523; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of

22
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the TREX
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Taqueria Mexico Tacox, Inc, Zachary
B. Burkons Rcvr, DBA Mi Pueblo,
12207 Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 87992430010 to 6625
Denison, LLC, 6625 Denison Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 8200523; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Res. No. 340-16.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
location of a D1, D2 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 3145 East 79th Street, and
repealing Resolution No 1244-15,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of location of a D1, D2
and D6 Liquor Permit to Jacqueline
Fort, DBA Jacqueline Beverages, 3145
East 79th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent No. 2827101 by Resolution No. 1244-15 adopted by the
Council on October 5, 2015; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of location of D1, D2 and D6
Liquor Permit to Jacqueline Fort,
DBA Jacqueline Beverages, 3145 East
79th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent No. 2827101, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1244-15, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

The City Record
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Res. No. 341-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 3850 East
65th Street, 1st floor east unit.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit
from Reichenberger Group, LLC, DBA
Mike’s Food Mart, 3850 East 65th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit
Number 7278587 to Shaker Jamil, Inc.,
DBA Mike’s Food Mart, 3850 East 65th
Street, 1st floor east unit, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105 Permit Number 8026805;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from Reichenberger Group, LLC,
DBA Mike’s Food Mart, 3850 East 65th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit
Number 7278587 to Shaker Jamil, Inc.,
DBA Mike’s Food Mart, 3850 East 65th
Street, 1st floor east unit, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105 Permit Number 8026805;
and requests the Superintendent of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.

438

March 23, 2016
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Res. No. 343-16.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 2184 West
85th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
from Loolo, LLC, 2184 West 85th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permit
Number 5284851 to Najada Town
Foods, Inc., 2184 West 85th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102 Permit Number
6286885; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit from Loolo, LLC, 2184 West
85th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permit Number 5284851 to Najada
Town Foods, Inc., 2184 West 85th

March 23, 2016
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102 Permit
Number 6286885; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Res. No. 351-16.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at
3924 East 71st Street and repealing
Resolution No. 1081-12, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to J & FS, Inc., DBA Mr.
Bill’s, 3924 East 71st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
4174451 by Resolution No. 1081-12,
adopted by the Council on August 8,
2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to J & FS, Inc., DBA Mr.
Bill’s, 3924 East 71st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
4174451, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 108112, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Res. No. 352-16.
By Council Member Kazy.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of stock of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 4611 West 130th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of

The City Record
an application for a transfer of stock
of a C1 Liquor Permit at KF Oil & Gas
Corporation,
DBA
West
130th
Marathon, 4611 West 130th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent
Number 4618581; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a transfer of
stock of a C1 Liquor Permit at KF Oil
& Gas Corporation, DBA West 130th
Marathon, 4611 West 130th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent
Number 4618581, and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Res. No. 353-16.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 12307 St.
Clair Avenue.

439

23
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Food Xpress and Gas, Inc.,
DBA Gas USA, 12307 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permit Number
2805847; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Food Xpress and
Gas, Inc., DBA Gas USA, 12307 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permit Number 2805847; and requests
the Superintendent of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Res. No. 355-16.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 2309 St. Clair
Avenue.

24
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Division of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from
Bria, Inc., 2309 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permit Number
095124 to Kizella, LLC, DBA Magic
City Lounge, 2309 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114 Permit Number
4687854; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30 days
of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from
Bria, Inc., 2309 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permit Number
095124 to Kizella, LLC, DBA Magic
City Lounge, 2309 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114 Permit Number
4687854; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

The City Record
Ord. No. 122-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the procurement by one or more
requirement contracts of the rental of
large capacity trucks with operators,
for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Works, for a period of
eighteen months with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the term
of eighteen months with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Works, for the necessary items of the rental of large
capacity trucks with operators in the
approximate amount as procured during the preceding term, procured by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Division of Streets, Department of
Public Works. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 7016, RL 2015-7)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 1514-15.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Brancatelli (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Buckeye Partners,

440

March 23, 2016
L.P. to encroach into the public rightof-way beneath Independence Road
and
Rockefeller
Avenue
by
installing, using, and maintaining
12.75-inch petroleum pipelines.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Buckeye Partners, L.P., Greenway Plaza, Suite 600, Houston, Texas
77046 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public right-of-way beneath Independence Road and Rockefeller
Avenue by installing, using, and
maintaining 12.75-inch petroleum
pipelines, at the following locations:
ENCROACHMENT 1 ALONG
INDEPENDENCE ROAD,
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio. Being part of the original One
Hundred Acre Lots 283, 281, 269, and
268. Two encroachments bounded and
described as follows:
COMMENCING at a found monument at the centerline of Independence Road as depicted on “M-3966
Map of Independence Road” recorded
in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.; Thence on
a bearing of N 09° 03' 53" W a distance of 786.79 feet to a point on the
westerly right of way line of Independence Road (60 feet wide) and the
point and place of beginning.
Thence along the centerline of the
encroachment the following eleven
(11) courses:
Course 1:
Thence N 64° 16' 41" E a distance of
35.89 feet to an angle point;
Course 2:
Thence N 07° 07' 22" W a distance
of 224.10 feet to an angle point;
Course 3:
Thence N 05° 57' 01" E a distance of
25.73 feet to an angle point;
Course 4:
Thence N 03° 52' 16" W a distance
of 427.91 feet to an angle point;
Course 5:
Thence N 41° 07' 44" E a distance of
7.16 feet to an angle point;
Course 6:
Thence N 02° 30' 14" W a distance
of 213.95 feet to an angle point;
Course 7:
Thence N 42° 29' 46" E a distance of
19.63 feet to an angle point;
Course 8:
Thence N 02° 46' 50" W a distance
of 226.56 feet to an angle point;
Course 9:
Thence N 47° 46' 50" W a distance
of 7.07 feet to an angle point;
Course 10:
Thence N 02° 46' 50" W a distance
of 156.42 feet to an angle point;
Course 11:
Thence N 42° 13' 10" E a distance of
14.23 feet to the easterly right of way
line of Independence Road and the
point of termination.

March 23, 2016
Said point bears S 16° 17' 50" E a
distance of 128.99 feet from a found
monument at the centerline of Independence Road as depicted on “M-3966
Map of Independence Road” recorded
in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.;
ENCROACHMENT 2 ALONG
INDEPENDENCE ROAD,
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
COMMENCING at a found monument at the centerline of Independence Road as depicted on “M-3966
Map of Independence Road” recorded
in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.; Thence on
a bearing of N 18° 41' 14" E a distance
of 298.51 feet to a point on the easterly
right of way line of Independence
Road (60 feet wide) and the point and
place of beginning. Thence along the
centerline of the encroachment the
following one (1) course:
Course 1:
Thence N 21° 55' 48" W a distance
of 105.06 feet to the westerly right of
way line of Independence Road (60
feet wide) and the point of termination.
Said point bears N 08° 26' 17" E a
distance of 384.39 feet from said found
monument at the centerline of Independence Road as depicted on “M-3966
Map of Independence Road” recorded
in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.;
ENCROACHMENT ALONG
ROCKEFELLER AVENUE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio. Being part of the original One
Hundred Acre Lots 283, 281, 269, and
268. Bounded and described as follows:
COMMENCING at a found monument box at the centerline of Rockefeller Avenue as depicted on “M-3966
Map of lndependence Road” recorded
in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.; Thence on
a bearing of N 49° 31' 46" W a distance of 87.61 feet to a point on the
westerly right of way line of Rockefeller Avenue (66 feet wide) and the
point and place of beginning. Thence
along the centerline of the encroachment the following one (1) course:
Course 1:
Thence N 62° 35' 58" E a distance of
66.00 feet to the easterly right of way
line of Rockefeller Avenue and the
point of termination.
Said point bears N 05° 16' 19" W a
distance of 87.61 feet from said found
monument box at the centerline of
Rockefeller Avenue as depicted on
“M-3966 Map of Independence Road”
recorded in Vol. 145, Pg. 11 C.C.M.R.;
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of the
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
That the encroaching structure(s)
permitted by this ordinance shall conform to plans and specifications first
approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required
permits, including but not limited to
Building Permits, before installing
the encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.

The City Record
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
a prospective Permittee has properly
indemnified the City against any loss
that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
to
the
encroachment
entry
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 1516-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute deeds of easement and various temporary deeds of easement
granting to the Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District certain easement rights in property located in
Otter Park and declaring the easement rights not needed for the City’s
public use to implement NEORSD’s
Project Clean Lake, Green Ambassador – Urban Agriculture Green
Infrastructure Project allowing them
to construct and maintain an outdoor
classroom in Otter Park; accepting
the gift of the improvements; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
a property adoption agreement for the
maintenance.
Whereas,
the
Northeast
Ohio
Regional Sewer District (“NEORSD”)
has requested the Director of Public
Works to convey certain easement
rights and temporary easement rights
in property located in the City’s Otter
Park; and
Whereas, the NEORSD requires the
easement rights in Otter Park to
implement NEORSD’s Project Clean
Lake, Green Ambassador – Urban
Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project allowing them to construct and
maintain an outdoor classroom in
Otter Park for the benefit of the community; and
Whereas, the NEORSD wishes to
begin construction of its Project
Clean Lake, Green Ambassador –
Urban Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project in and around which will
include the construction of an outdoor
classroom in Otter Park; and
Whereas, the outdoor classroom
will be a public space that can educate visitors with or without formal
programming, and will be a benefit to
the community; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
easement interests in the following
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:

441

25
PPN 126-31-049
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
9 in the J. E. Latimer Re-Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431 and 432, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
23 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 32 feet
front on the Northerly side of Gill
Avenue S. E. and extending back of
equal width 87.83 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
PPN 126-31-050
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
10 in J. E. Latimer’s Re-Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 423 and 431, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 23 of Maps,
Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being 32 feet front on the Northerly side of Gill Avenue, S. E., and
extending back of equal width 87.83
feet deep, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
PPN 126-31-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
11 in J. E. Latimer’s Re-subdivision of
Sub Lots Nos. 135 to 142 inclusive, and
Sub Lots Nos. 169 to 175 inclusive in
Gill, Brainard, Hower and Higbee’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423 to 431, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
23 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 32 feet
front on the Northerly side of Gill
Ave., S. E., and extending back of
equal width 87.83 feet deep, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
PPN 126-31-052
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
12 in Jay E. Latimer’s Re-subdivision
of part of Original One hundred Acre
Lots Nos 423 and 431, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 23 of Maps,
Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and being 31.62 feet front on the
Northerly side of Gill Avenue S.E.,
and extending back 87.83 feet deep on
the Westerly line, 87.83 feet deep on
the Easterly line, which is also the
Westerly line of East 83rd Street, (formerly Garretson Avenue), and 31.62
feet wide in the rear, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
temporary easement interests in the
following described properties are
not needed for the City’s public use:
Parcel 1:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 2 in the Latimer Subdivision of part of Original Township Lot
No. 423, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga County Records. Said
Sublot has a frontage of 35 feet on
East 82nd Street, as appears by said

26
plat, be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-005
Parcel 2:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
3 in the J.E. Latimer Re-Subdivision
of Gill-Brainard-Howard and Higbee’s Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423, 424,
431 and 432, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and being
35 feet front on the Easterly side of
East 82nd Street (formerly Chadwick
Street) and extending back of equal
width 126 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-006
Parcel 3:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
4 in J.E. Latimer’s ReAllotment of
Gill, Brainard, Hower and Higbee’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431
and 432, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and being
35 feet front on the Easterly side of
East 82nd Street (formerly Chadwick
Street) and extending back of equal
width 126 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-007
Parcel 4:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub-lot No.
5 in the J.E. Latimer Re-Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 423, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and being
35 feet front on the Easterly side of
East 82nd Street (formerly Chadwick
Street) and extending back of equal
width 126 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-008
Parcel 5:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub-lot No.
6 in the J.E. Latimer Re-Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431 and 432, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
23 of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 35 feet
front on the Easterly side of East
82nd Street (formerly Chadwick
Street) and extending back of equal
width 126 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-009
Parcel 6:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being Sub Lot No. 7 in
the J.E. Latimer Re-Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431, 432, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 23 of
Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 35 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 82nd Street
(formerly Chadwick Street), and

The City Record
extending back of equal width 126
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
PPN: 126-31-010
Parcel 7:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sub Lot No.
8 in J. E. Latimer’s Re-Allotment of
Sub Lots Nos. 135 to 142 inclusive, and
Sub Lots Nos. 169 to 175 both inclusive,
in Gill, Brainard, Hower and Higbee’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 423, 424, 431
and 432, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 23 of Maps, Page 19 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and being
35 feet front on the Easterly side of
East 82nd Street (formerly Chadwick
Street) and extending back of equal
width 126 feet deep running along the
Northerly line of Gill Avenue, S.E., as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
PPN: 126-31-011
Section 3. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the abovedescribed non-exclusive easement
interests and the exclusive temporary
easements to the NEORSD at a price
of $1.00 and other valuable consideration, which is determined to be fair
market value.
Section 4. That the purpose of the
easements shall be to implement
NEORSD’s Project Clean Lake, Green
Ambassador – Urban Agriculture
Green Infrastructure Project allowing them to construct and maintain an
outdoor classroom in Otter Park for
the benefit of the community.
Section 5. That the duration of the
easements shall be perpetual; that the
duration of the temporary easements
shall be until construction of the outdoor classroom is completed; that the
easements and temporary easements
may include reasonable right of entry
rights to the City; that the easements
and temporary easements shall not be
assignable without the consent of the
Director of Public Works; that the
easements and temporary easements
shall require that the NEORSD provide reasonable insurance, and pay
any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 6. That the conveyances
referred to above shall be made by
official deeds of easement and official deeds of temporary easement prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Works
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The deeds of easement and the deeds
of temporary easement shall contain
any additional terms and conditions
as are required to protect the interest
of the City. The Directors of Public
Works and Law are authorized to execute any other documents, including
without limitation, contracts for right
of entry, as may be necessary to effect
this ordinance.
Section 7. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 and Section
133.24 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into a property adoption agreement
with the NEORSD to construct an outdoor classroom at Otter Park and to
maintain the improvements all in con-

442

March 23, 2016
nection with their Project Clean
Lake, Green Ambassador – Urban
Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project.
The
NEORSD
may
make
improvements to the adopted property, which improvements may include
but not be limited to, construction of
stone benches, signage, functional
exhibits, and other amenities needed
to implement NEORSD’s Project
Clean Lake, Green Ambassador –
Urban Agriculture Green Infrastructure Project. The NEORSD shall
maintain the adopted property during
the term of the property adoption.
Section 8. That this property adoption shall not be construed as a conveyance of any right, title, or interest
in public property, but is the grant of
a privilege revocable at the will of
Council.
Section 9. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to accept the
gift of any improvements, maintenance, and other related benefits
made to the adopted property.
Section 10. That the property adoption agreement shall be prepared by
the Director of Law.
Section 11 That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 22-16.
By Council Members Cleveland and
(by
departmental
Brancatelli
request).
An emergency ordinance designating Clarkwood Road between Central
Avenue and Cedar Avenue with a secondary and honorary designation of
“Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way.”
Whereas, the citizens of Cleveland
want to recognize Priscilla Elizabeth
Walton with a street sign designation
of “Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way”;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Clarkwood Road
between Cedar Avenue and Central
Avenue is designated with a secondary and honorary designation of
“Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way.”
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 115-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants

March 23, 2016

The City Record
Supplies is authorized to purchase the
following described property from the
Octavia Land Company for the expansion of the Collinwood Athletic Complex:

from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development for
the CDBG Year 42 under the Title I of
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2016 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act
Program, Emergency Solutions Grant
Program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
apply for and accept grants from the
U. S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) in the following
approximate
amounts:
$19,564,836 to conduct the 2016 Year 42
Community
Development
Block
Grant (CDBG) Program; $3,422,179 to
conduct the Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act (HOME) Program; $1,808,259 to conduct the Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) Program; and $952,331 for the Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS
(HOPWA) Program, for the purposes
and uses set forth in the budgets and
in compliance with the requirements
of Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and
applicable rules and regulations.
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grants, and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the budgets for the grants.
Section 2. That the budget allocations for the grants, placed in File No.
115-16-A, made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, are approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Course 3:
Thence South 89°-41'-00" East,
along the Southerly line of land so
conveyed to Merex Corporation, a distance of 430.48 feet to the Southeasterly corner thereof, and the center line
of East 152nd Street, as aforesaid;

Ord. No. 117-16.
By Council Members Polensek, K.
Johnson and Kelley (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase property
from Octavia Land Company for the
expansion of the Collinwood Athletic
Complex for the Department of Public
Works.
Whereas, the Director of Public
Works has requested the purchase of
property which is located at 1120 East
152nd Street from the Octavia Land
Company for the expansion of the
Collinwood Athletic Complex; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and

Course 4:
Thence South 0°-19'-00" West,
along said center line of East 152nd
Street, a distance of 80.00 feet to the
principal place of beginning and containing 0.7681 Acres (33,458 Square
Feet) of land according to a survey
made by Thomas J. Neff, Jr. Registered Surveyor No. 7065-Ohio in
December of 1997.
The subject premises being the
land conveyed to Octavia Land Co. by
deed recorded as AFN 199901261174 of
Cuyahoga County Records.
Be the same more or less but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to execute on
behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to effect the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the consideration to
be paid for this property shall not
exceed $95,000, which includes a nonrefundable earnest payment, and
other valuable considerations which
is determined to be fair market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquiring, accepting, and recording the land
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF

PPN 115-17-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
Euclid Township, Lot No. 2, Tract 10
and is further bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a stone monument at
the intersection of the center lines of
East 152nd Street (formerly Pitney
and Collamer Streets), 60 feet wide
and Woodworth Road N.E., 60 feet
wide. Thence North 0°-19'-00" East,
along said center line of East 152nd
Street, a distance of 1223.87 feet to the
Northeasterly corner of a parcel of
land conveyed to Midtown Industrial
Warehouse, Inc. by deed recorded in
Volume 96-8267 Page 3 of Cuyahoga
County Records and the principal
place of beginning of the land herein
described;
Course 1:
Thence North 89°-41'-00" West,
along said Northerly line of land so
conveyed to Midtown Industrial
Warehouse, Inc., passing through a
drill hole and cross found in the Westerly right of way of East 152nd Street,
a distance of 405.97 feet to a 5/8" iron
pin found at the Northwesterly corner
thereof and the Northeasterly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to the Norfolk
and Western Railroad Company;
Course 2:
Thence North 16°-43'-00" West,
along said Northeasterly line of land
so conveyed to the Norfolk and Western Railroad Company, a distance of
83.67 feet to the Southwesterly corner
of land conveyed to Merex Corporation by deed recorded in Volume 884843, Page 54 of Cuyahoga County
Records;

443

27
516, 20 SF 523, 20 SF 535, 20 SF 538, 20
SF 544, 20 SF 552, 20 SF 558, 20 SF 561,
and 20 SF 565, RQS 0103, RL 2016-3.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 148-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
Kelley
(by
departmental
and
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 51914, passed May 12, 2014, relating to
appropriating Community Development Block Grant and HOME funds
for administrative expenses of the
Department of Community Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 519-14, passed May 12,
2014, are amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $4,837,270 from Fund No. 14
SF 040 and HOME funds in the
amount of $368,900 from Fund No. 19
SF 680, and any other prior year balances that may become available, are
appropriated for the administrative
expenses of the Department of Community Development under the following schedule:
Personnel:
Other:

$4,742,170
$464,000

Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
expend funds and enter into contracts
for reimbursement of non-profit, government and for-profit agencies and
sub-recipients for the cost of audit
and other professional services.
Section 2. That existing Sections 1
and 2 of Ordinance No. 519-14, passed
May 12, 2014, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 149-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment to
the Master Development Agreement
with Chagrin Highlands, Ltd., City
Contract No. 40622, to change certain
terms of the agreement.

28
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an amendment to the Master Development Agreement with
Chagrin Highlands, Ltd., City Contract No. 40622, to eliminate the ceiling on Reserved Land and to provide
that the Area Factor shall be 61% for
all future sales. All other terms and
conditions contained in the contract
shall remain the same.
Section 2. That the amendment to
Master Development Agreement No.
40622 shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 153-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
Kelley
(by
departmental
and
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
renew its Lease By Way of Concession with the Board of Trustees of the
Cleveland Public Library for the
Eastman Reading Garden in Eastman Park to March 1, 2048.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 107993, passed June 7, 1993, the City
entered a Lease By Way of Concession (“LBWOC”) with the Board of
Trustees of the Cleveland Public
Library (the “Library”) for the surface level of the Eastman Reading
Garden in Eastman Park for a period
of twenty years, which expired on
May 18, 2014; and
Whereas, also under Ordinance
1079-93, passed June 7, 1993, the City
granted an easement (“Easement”) to
the Library granting certain rights
for land below Eastman Park for a
term of fifty years from completion of
the library reconstruction and expansion project, which will expire on
March 1, 2048; and
Whereas, the City and the Library
desire to extend the LBWOC term for
the above-ground Eastman Reading
Garden in Eastman Park to run coterminous with the term of the Easement
for the land below Eastman Park,
which is currently set to expire on
March 1, 2048; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
Section 183.03 or any other provision
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Public Works is authorized to renew the LBWOC with the
Library for property known as Eastman Park (“Renewal”), and more
fully described as follows:

The City Record
EASTMAN READING GARDEN
SURFACE LEVEL LEASE AREA
PPN 101-05-021
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lot No. 67, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
Northerly line of Superior Avenue
N.E. (132 feet wide) with the Westerly line of East 6th Street (99 feet
wide); thence South 55°48'18” West
124.54 feet along the Northerly line of
Superior Avenue and the Southerly
lines of Sublots Nos. 46 and 44 of John
A. Rockwell and Others Subdivision
as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 58 of Cuyahoga
County Records, to the Southwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 44 and of the
property conveyed to Louise G. Bickford by Deed dated April 29, 1992 in
Volume 92-3538, Page 56 of Cuyahoga
County Records and the principal
place of beginning;
Thence continuing South 55°48'18”
West 87.76 feet along the Northerly
line of Superior Avenue to a point on
the Southerly extension of the line
along the outer extremities of the
Easterly wall of the Main Library
Building;
Thence North 34°17'07” West 63.00
feet along said Easterly line of the
Main Library Building to a point;
Thence North 55°46'53” East 11.00
feet along the Southerly line of an
Areaway to a point;
Thence North 34°17'07” West 81.00
feet along the Easterly line of said
Areaway to a point;
Thence South 55°46'53” West 11.00
feet along the Northerly line of said
Areaway to a point on said Easterly
line of the Main Library Building;
Thence North 34°17'07” West 55.09
feet along said Easterly line to a
point on the Southerly line of Rockwell Avenue (66 feet wide);
Thence North 55°50'44” East 89.46
feet along the Southerly line of Rockwell Avenue to the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 44 and of said
Bickford property;
Thence South 33°47'46” East 199.04
feet along the Westerly line of said
Sublot No. 44 and of said Bickford
property to the principal place of
beginning,
containing
16,748.10
square feet (0.38449 acre), more or
less, but subject to all legal highways
and easements of record.
The above description is based on a
survey of this parcel by Ralph C.
Tyler, P.E., P.S., Registered Surveyor
No. 4236
Section 2. That the term of the
Renewal authorized by this ordinance for the LBWOC shall not
exceed March 1, 2048 and shall run
coterminous with the Easement
granted to the Library under Ordinance No. 1079-93, passed June 7, 1993.
All other terms and conditions of the
LBWOC shall remain the same.
Section 3. That the Renewal shall
be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

444

March 23, 2016
Ord. No. 155-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance designating certain property owned by the
City of Cleveland in Chagrin Highlands in the Village of Highland Hills
as a municipal utility district and
authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into a Municipal Utility District Agreement with
the Village of Highland Hills for
improvement of said property and
sharing of income tax proceeds resulting from the development of the property.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
(“Cleveland”) is the owner of approximately 83.35 acres located in Chagrin
Highlands in the Village of Highland
Hills, Cuyahoga County, Ohio, depicted on the map and placed in File No.
155-16-A (the “Property”); and
Whereas, Section 715.84 of the
Revised Code authorizes two or more
municipal corporations to enter into a
contract whereby they may agree to
share “ … any municipal income tax
revenues derived from the income
earned by persons employed by businesses that locate within the district
after it is designated as such by the
contracting
municipal
corporations...”; and
Whereas, in order for two or more
municipal corporations to share in the
income tax revenues derived from
designated property, the property
must be located in a municipal corporation empowered by Section 715.84 to
enter into a contract pursuant thereto;
and
Whereas, Cleveland and the Village of Highland Hills (“Highland
Hills”) have agreed to enter into an
agreement under Section 715.84 designating the Property as a municipal
utility district for the purpose of sharing in the income tax revenue derived
therefrom; and
Whereas, the provision of utility
services by Cleveland for the Property constitutes part of the consideration for the sharing of income tax revenues in the district; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council designates the Property as a municipal
utility district for purposes of income
tax sharing with Highland Hills.
Section 2. That the Director of Law
is authorized to prepare a “Municipal
Utility District Contract” between
Cleveland and Highland Hills which
Agreement shall be substantially in
accordance with the following terms:
(a) shall adopt and implement a
mutually agreeable plan for the capital development of the Property;
(b) Highland Hills shall provide
municipal services to the Property in
the same manner provided to other
comparable areas in Highland Hills;
(c) To the extent permitted by law,
Highland Hills would commit to not
condemn any land within the Property except for such land as is required
for highway and utilities rights-ofway required to serve the development;
(d) Highland Hills would purchase
any land required for highway and
utilities rights-of-way at fair market
value;

The City Record

March 23, 2016
(e) Cleveland and Highland Hills
shall be entitled to the following
respective percentages of the gross
income taxes generated by the Property:
Cleveland
Highland Hills

40%
60%

Provided that the share paid to
Cleveland shall not be less than 1% of
the total income generated from the
Property, if the total tax rate is
reduced by the sole actions of the Village of Highland Hills.
(f) Such other terms as the Director
of Law may determine to be in the
best interests of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Mayor, the
Director of Economic Development
and the Director of Law are authorized to execute and deliver the
“Municipal Utility District Agreement” for the Property and to take
such other actions and to execute and
deliver such other agreements, instruments and certificates as may be
required by such Agreement.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 157-16.
By Council Members Brancatelli
Kelley
(by
departmental
and
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Agreement
with Cuyahoga County, the Cuyahoga
County Board of Health, the Northeast Ohio First Suburbs Consortium,
and other entities agreed upon
between the parties, to operate the
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition.
Whereas, the Northcoast Brownfield Coalition was formed in 2009 to
apply for, accept, and implement FY
2009 USEPA Brownfield Assessment
grants and consists of the County, the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health,
the City of Cleveland, the Northeast
Ohio First Suburbs Consortium, and
other public entities; and
Whereas, FY 2015 funding is available from the USEPA; and
Whereas, the City desires to join
with the other agencies to form the
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition to
benefit from FY 2015 USEPA Brownfield Assessment grant funding; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an Agreement with Cuyahoga County, the Cuyahoga County
Board of Health, the Northeast Ohio
First Suburbs Consortium, and other
entities as may be agreed upon
between the parties to operate the
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition. The
Agreement shall, among other things,
designate Cuyahoga County as the
lead entity for purposes of applying

for grant funding under this ordinance.
Section 2. That the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents to receive grant
funding, if necessary. Grant funds
received under this ordinance are
appropriated for the purposes of this
ordinance.
Section 3. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into one or more agreements
with members of the coalition; and
any other public or private entities as
may be agreed upon between the parties.
Section 4. That the agreement or
agreements shall contain provisions
to protect and City’s interests.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 189-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts without competitive bidding with ADB Airfield Solutions,
LLC for electrical parts and equipment, including labor and materials
and installation if necessary, to maintain, repair and modify electrical systems at airport properties, for the
Department of Port Control, for a period not to exceed two years with two
one-year options to renew, the first of
which shall require additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
ADB Airfield Solutions, LLC. Therefore, the Director of Port Control is
authorized to make one or more written requirement contracts with ADB
Airfield Solutions, LLC, at a cost not
to exceed $500,000, for the requirements for a period not to exceed two
years, with two one-year options to
renew, the first of which shall require
additional legislative authority, of
the necessary items of electrical parts
and equipment, including labor and
materials and installation if necessary, to maintain, repair and modify
electrical systems at airport properties, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis, for the Department of Port
Control. If such additional legislative
authority is granted and the first of
the one-year options to renew is exercised, then the second of the one-year
options to renew may be exercised at
the option of the Director of Port Control, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council.

445

29
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 3001, RL 2016-2)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 190-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. RCD 2014-55 with
Arconas Corporation to provide for
the purchase of labor and materials
needed to install power outlets and
USB ports, including maintenance,
repair and inspection, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 702-13, passed September 30, 2013, the Director of Port Control entered into Contract No. RCD
2014-55 with Arconas Corporation for
the purchase of labor and materials
needed to install power outlets and
USB ports, including maintenance,
repair and inspection, for the convenience of the travelling public, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 702-13
requires further legislation before
exercising the second option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
second option to renew Contract No.
RCD 2014-55 for the purchase of labor
and materials needed to install power
outlets and USB ports, including
maintenance, repair and inspection,
for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control with Arconas Corporation. This ordinance constitutes the
additional
legislative
authority
required by Ordinance No. 702-13 to
exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

30
Ord. No. 194-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of recycled or
virgin asphalt concrete, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public
Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for requirements for a term of
one year or two years for the necessary items of recycled or virgin
asphalt concrete in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division of
Streets, Department of Public Works.
Bids shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term. The
Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Works by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds from the sale of
bonds, if issued for this purpose, and
shall also be charged against the
proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify
the amount of any purchase under the
contract, each of which purchases
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a
delivery order issued against the contract or contracts and certified by the
Director of Finance. (RQN 7016, RL
2015-33)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

The City Record
Ord. No. 195-16.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of replacing the bridge
and renovating the irrigation system
at Highland Park Golf Course, including making site improvements; and
authorizing the Director of Public
Works or Capital Projects, as appropriate, to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of replacing the
bridge and renovating the irrigation
system at Highland Park Golf Course,
including making site improvements,
for the Department of Public Works
or Capital Projects, as appropriate, by
one or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Works or Capital Projects, as
appropriate, is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder or
bidders after competitive bidding for
a gross price for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of the improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and
each, or any combination, of the
trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross
price. On request of the appropriate
director, the contractor shall furnish
a correct schedule of unit prices,
including profit and overhead, for all
items constituting units of the
improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works or Capital Project, as appropriate, is authorized to apply and pay
for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 516, 20 SF 520, 20 SF 523, 20
SF 528, 2 SF 534, 20 SF 535, 20 SF 538,
20 SF 540, 20 SF 544, 20 SF 546, 20 SF
552, 20 SF 554, 20 SF 558, 20 SF 561, 20
SF 563, 20 SF 565, 20 SF 568, and from
the fund or funds approved by the
Director of Finance, including those
funds to which are credited the proceeds from the sale of future bonds, if
authorized for this purpose, Request
No. RQS 0103, RL 2016-12.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

446

March 23, 2016
Ord. No. 198-16.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 24675 with Corporate Wings Hopkins LLC, dba Atlantic Aviation to
extend the term of their lease for an
additional ten years, with one option
to renew for an additional five years
and shall require additional legislative authority to expand their leased
premises, and to issue rent credits for
improvements made to the leased
premises, for the Department of Port
Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Port Control
is authorized to amend City Contract
No. 24675 between Corporate Wings
Hopkins LLC, dba Atlantic Aviation
to extend the term of the existing
lease for an additional ten years commencing February 1, 2024 and ending
January 31, 2034 with one option to
renew for an additional five years
and shall require additional legislative authority.
The amendment shall provide that
upon the passage date of this ordinance, the existing leased premises
shall be increased by approximately
26,185 square feet (“New Leased
Premises”). The rent amount for the
approximately 26,185 of additional
square feet of the New Leased Premises shall be set by the Board of Control
and based upon a fair market value
appraisal. A copy of the legislative
summary has been placed in File No.
198-16-A.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to provide for
the issuance of rent credits to Corporate Wings Hopkins LLC, dba
Atlantic Aviation for the purpose of
making capital improvements to the
Leased Premises, subject to the
approval of appropriate City officials
for said capital improvements. The
rent credit amount shall be amortized
over the extended term of the agreement. No rent credit shall reduce the
minimum annual payment due the
City by more than 67%. Any such capital improvements not amortized over
such period shall not constitute a rent
credit.
Section 3. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 250-16.
By Council Members Mitchell, Conwell, Dow, and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Mayor’s Office
of Capital Projects to issue a permit

March 23, 2016
and authorizing the Director of Public Works to issue a license to University Circle Inc. to encroach into the
public right-of-way and in City parkland at various locations throughout
University Circle by installing, using,
and maintaining approximately 40
Story Poles and or surrounding pads.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to University Circle Inc., 10831
Magnolia Drive, Cleveland, OH 441061887 (“Permittee”), to encroach into
the public right-of-way throughout
University Circle by installing, using,
and maintaining approximately 28
posts
and/or
surrounding
story
mounting pads at the following locations:
Adjacent
Property
Post#
Owner/Description
6 Western Reserve Historical Society, 10825 East Boulevard;
8 The Music Settlement, 11125 Magnolia Drive;
9 University Circle Inc., 10831 Magnolia Drive;
10 City of Cleveland Right-of-Way
(“ROW”). In tree lawn at corner of
Magnolia Drive and East 108th Street.
36" from corner of sidewalk to corner
of post, 27" from edge of each sidewalk to sides of the post;
16
University
Circle
United
Methodist Church. In front of 1915-19
East 107thStreet;
17 Midblock in front of Cleveland
Sight Center property, in grass area
near sidewalk along North side of
Chester Avenue;
18 Ronald McDonald House of
Cleveland, Inc. In brick-paved plaza
at NW corner of Euclid Avenue and
East 105th Street. 1' off of main sidewalk at SE corner of brick plaza, centered within the third sidewalk tile
from the streetlight pole;
19 Cleveland Clinic Foundation. In
grass area near the SW corner of
Euclid Avenue and East 105th Street.
36" from edge of sidewalk; post centered on second sidewalk tile joint to
the east of the pedestrian signal pole;
20 W. O. Walker Center Inc.;
21 ROW. In grass island at SW corner of Stearns Road and Euclid
Avenue intersection. 2' from sidewalk to front corner of post with front
corner aligned with joint that runs
from the right side of ADA curb ramp;
22 ROW. In grass area near NW corner of Euclid Avenue and Chester
Avenue intersection. 3' from sidewalk at bend in ROW;
23 ROW. In grass near NE corner of
Euclid Avenue and Chester Avenue in
front of Mark Hanna statue. 24" from
midpoint of concrete pathway tile;
108" from joint of concrete and
asphalt;
24 ROW. At southern corner of eastern grass triangle within the plaza at
the southern end of Wade Lagoon
staircase; at the intersection of
Euclid Avenue and Martin Luther
King, Jr. Boulevard, 21" from each
sidewalk edge; aligned with second
joint of sidewalk and first joint of
pathway; 46" from corner of triangle
where sidewalk meets plaza;
26 Musical Arts Association (Severance Hall);
27 University Circle Inc. In front of
2055 Adelbert Road;

The City Record
28 University Hospitals along
Euclid Avenue near University Hospital Drive;
29 ROW. In sidewalk on NW side of
Euclid Avenue, in front of 11205
Euclid Avenue near University Hospital Drive crosswalk. 11'7" from traffic light pole to corner of post; 6'2"
from curb;
30 The Community Builders. Near
corner of Euclid Avenue and Ford
Drive, aligned with planting bed near
Ford Drive. Commodore Building
entrance. 3' from building; 3' from
planting bed;
31 ROW. Centered in area of missing sidewalk tile just above the north
side of Ford Drive and west side of
Hessler Road (NW corner), 36" from
curb;
32 ROW. In grass area of island
between intersection of East Boulevard, Ford Drive, and Juniper Road.
Centered on sidewalk joint between
third and fourth tiles from Ford
Drive; 24" from sidewalk;
33 University Circle Inc. 1716 East
115th Street. In grass lawn in front of
apartment building. 2 sidewalk tiles
from edge of driveway; 24" from sidewalk, aligned with separation joint;
34 ROW. In sidewalk on NW corner
of Euclid Avenue and East 117th
Street near entrance to 11635 Euclid
Avenue 3'10" from back right corner
of bollard to left corner of post and
12'6" from curb to front corner of
post;
35 East Cleveland Township Cemetery Foundation, in front of 1621 East
118th Street;
36 The Free Medical Clinic of
Greater Cleveland, Inc., 12321 Euclid
Avenue;
37 ROW. In sidewalk, SW of Healthline station near Euclid Avenue and
East 123rd Street. 3'7" from edge of
planting bed; 4'2.5" from road;
38 Cleveland Institute of Art. In
concrete plaza to the east of HealthLine station near main entrance to
CIA. Centered on fifth concrete joint
from edge brick pavers near bus station; 69.5" from “Change” bench. SE
corner East 115th Street and Euclid
Avenue;
39 ROW. In sidewalk in front of
MOCA, centered on seventh joint from
tree pit (153") and 6th joint from
street; 87" from corner of CPP shaft.
11400 Euclid Avenue; and
40 ROW. SE corner East 115th
Street and Mayfield Road, in front of
the Cozad-Bates House.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of the
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
That the encroaching structure(s)
permitted under this ordinance shall
conform to plans and specifications
first approved by the Manager of
Engineering and Construction. That
Permittee shall obtain all other
required permits, including but not
limited to Building Permits, before
installing the encroachment(s).
Section 3. That, notwithstanding
Section 183.16 and any other provision
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Works is authorized to issue a
license, which shall renew from yearto-year subject to termination at any
time by the Director, to University
Circle Inc., 10831 Magnolia Drive,
Cleveland,
OH
44106-1887
(“Licensee”), to enter upon City park-

447

31
land throughout the University Circle
area to install, use, and maintain
approximately 12 story posts and/or
surrounding mounting pads, at the
following locations:
Post# Location
1 Wade Park Oval, as shown in
Council File No. 250-16-A.
2 Wade Park Oval, as shown in the
above-mentioned file.
3 Wade Park Oval, as shown in the
above-mentioned file.
4 Wade Park Oval, as shown in the
above-mentioned file.
5 Wade Park Oval, as shown in the
above-mentioned file.
7 Wade Park. 11021 East Boulevard.
In sidewalk along East Boulevard.
Located within a sidewalk plaza in
front of main entrance to Cleveland
Institute of Music.
11 Wade Park. NE corner East 105th
Street and Martin Luther King, Jr.
Boulevard. Near new plaza entrance
to VA Hospital in grass area between
plaza and East Boulevard sidewalk.
30" off center of sidewalk curve edge;
34" from edge of the sidewalk to side
of the post from East 105th Street
side; 30" from edge of the sidewalk
from the East Boulevard side.
12 Rockefeller Park. Grass area
between tennis court parking lot and
sidewalk. 24" from bike rack pavement; 24" from pathway; 27" from
sidewalk joint.
13 Rockefeller Park. Grass area
along pathway toward Rockefeller
Lagoon, near gazebo. 24" from large
crack in concrete pathway.
14 Wade Park. In grass area across
East 105th Street, near Park Lane.
7'6" from stone wall and 2' from sidewalk; centered on adjacent sidewalk
tile.
15 Wade Park. In the park across
street from 1890 East 107th Street,
near crosswalk, 3' from corner of
sidewalk and pathway to the post corner.
25 Wade Lagoon/Fine Arts Garden.
In grass area behind sidewalk ROW
at corner of East Boulevard and
Euclid Avenue. 139.5" from manhole
edge to corner of pole; 24" from sidewalk aligned to centerline of third
sidewalk tile joint from the larger
separation joint.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 4. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit and license
authorized by this ordinance and
shall incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit and the
license shall be issued only when, in
the opinion of the Director of Law, a
prospective Permittee/Licensee has
properly indemnified the City against
any loss that may result from the
encroachment(s) and activities permitted.
Section 5. That the permit and
license shall reserve to the City reasonable right of entry to the encroachment and license location(s).
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

32
Ord. No. 257-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply for
and accept a grant from the Cuyahoga County Department of Public
Safety and Justice Services for the FY
2015 Cleveland Domestic Violence
Program; and to enter into one or
more contracts with Cuyahoga County and other entities to implement the
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Law
is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the approximate amount of
$121,121, and any other funds that
may become available during the
grant term, from the Cuyahoga County Department of Public Safety and
Justice Services, to conduct the FY
2015 Cleveland Domestic Violence
Program, for the purposes set forth in
the application and according thereto; that the Director of Law is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the file for the
grant.
Section 2. That the award letter,
budget, and subgrant application for
the grant, File No. 257-16-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
is authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the County of Cuyahoga and one or more contracts with
other entities to implement the program as described in the file.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 258-16.
By Council Members Cleveland, K.
Johnson, Brancatelli and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
the remaining portion of Payne Court
N.E.
Whereas, under Resolution No. 86209 adopted August 5, 2009, this Council declared its intention to vacate the
remaining portion of Payne Court
N.E.; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on the
abutting property owners affected by
the resolution which stated a time
and place when objections would be
heard before the Board of Revision of
Assessments; and

The City Record
Whereas, on February 9, 2016, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating
a portion of the above and that it will
not be detrimental to the general
interest and that it should be made;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
1.
That
this
Council
Section
declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Payne Court, N.E.
All that remaining portion of Payne
Court, N.E. (14 feet wide) extending
easterly from the East right of way
line of East 21st Street (66 feet wide)
to the West right of way line of East
22nd Street (60 feet wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved to
the City of Cleveland an easement of
full width as described above for
Cleveland Public Power, the Illuminating Company. Ingress/Egress
granted to Marc Brown, Norton Furniture, parcel number 102-32-010.
That no structures shall be erected
on the premises described in this easement except those constructed under
the approval of, and in compliance
with, plans approved by Cleveland
Public Power, the Illuminating Company, and the City of Cleveland.
Section
3.
That
provided
all
required
approvals
have
been
obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
ordinance to the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 262-16.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 173.20 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1759-A-76,
passed January 31, 1977, relating to
the Boxing and Wrestling Commission.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 173.20 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1759-A-76, passed January 31, 1977,
is amended to read as follows:

448

March 23, 2016
Section
173.20
Boxing
and
Wrestling Commission
The salaries of the members of the
Boxing and Wrestling Commission
shall be Seven Thousand Two Hundred Dollars ($7,200) per annum,
except that the member designated
by the Mayor as Chairman shall
receive additional compensation of
Five Hundred and Seventy-Five Dollars ($575.00) per annum.
Section 2. That the compensation
established under Section 173.20 shall
be effective as of December 3, 2013.
Section 3. That existing Section
173.20 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1759-A-76, passed January 31, 1977, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 344-16.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the National Kidney Foundation Annual Walk on June 5, 2016,
managed by the National Kidney
Foundation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the National Kidney Foundation
Annual Walk, on June 5, 2016, start:
Great Lakes Science Center at 601
Erieside Avenue; west on Erieside
Avenue; south on West 3rd Street;
east on Al Lerner Way; east on
Erieside Avenue; east on North Marginal Road; around Burke Airport
Loop; west on North Marginal Road;
north on East 9th Street; turn around
at Pier; south on East 9th Street; west
on Erieside Avenue—finish line; provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

The City Record

March 23, 2016
Ord. No. 345-16.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
agreement with Broadway School of
Music & the Arts for the Community
Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program through the use of Wards 5 and
12 Casino Revenue Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby authorized to enter
agreement
with
Broadway
into
School of Music & the Arts for the
Community Arts Instruction and
Enrichment Program for the public
purpose of providing art and music
instruction to youth residing in the
city of Cleveland through the use of
Wards 5 and 12 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $31,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take

effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

Ord. No. 346-16.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Aging to enter into an agreement
with Court Community Service for the
Senior Lawn Care Program through
the use of Ward 1 Casino Revenue
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Aging be authorized to
enter into an agreement with Court
Community Service for the Senior
Lawn Care Program for the public
purpose of assisting senior citizens
residing in the city of Cleveland with
grass cutting and lawn maintenance
care through the use of Ward 1 Casino
Revenue Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $29,500 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 188.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

33
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 14, 2016.
Effective March 17, 2016.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, March 21, 2016
9:30 a.m.
Municipal Services and Properties
Committee: Present: K. Johnson,
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Kazy,
Reed.
Absence:
Vice
Authorized
Dow,
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson. Pro
tempore: Pruitt.
2:00 p.m.
Transportation Committee, Development, Planning and Sustainability
Committee & Finance Committee:
Present in Transportation: Keane,
Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Conwell, J.
Johnson, Kazy, Reed. Unauthorized
Absence: K. Johnson. Present in
DP&S: Brancatelli, Chair; Cleveland,
Vice
Chair;
Dow,
Pruitt,
Zone.
Authorized
Absence:
Cimperman,
Cummins. Present in Finance: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane,
Pruitt, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Mitchell.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane,
Pruitt, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Mitchell.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance — Court Community
Service — agreement (Ward 01 CRF) (O 346-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449

Agreements
Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District — property adoption
agreement — Community Development — public improvements — former U.S. Coast Guard
Station (O 259-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chagrin Highlands, Ltd. — Master Development Agreement — Amend City Contract No. 40622 —
Economic Development Department (O 149-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art and music instruction
to city of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the Arts — Community
Development Department (Ward(s) 05, 12 CRF) (O 345-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — accept 2016 funding for illegal dumping — Public
Safety’s Environmental Crimes Task Force (O 75-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development Department — Municipal Utility District Agreement — income tax
sharing with Highland Hills for Chagrin Highlands (O 155-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — USEPA Brownfield Assessment grant funding; FY 2015 —
Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga County Board of Health, Northeast Ohio First Suburbs
Consortium — Economic Development Department (O 157-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC , Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement —
Utilities Department — CPP (O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance — Court Community
Service — Aging Department (Ward 01 CRF) (O 346-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

449

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449

The City Record

34

March 23, 2016

Summer Safety Education Film Series — safety education programming on drug use, violence
and crime prevention — Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation —
Community Development (Ward 16 CRF) (O 373-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
Works Department — deeds of easement — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for
Otter Park — gift of public improvement (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 441

Appropriations
Appropriations — Year 2016 — current expenses and other expenses — Finance
Department (O 125-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430

Banners
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St., and Scovill Ave. — May 25 to
June 24 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — Capital Projects Office (Ward
05) (O 368-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area — encroach into right-of-way — attached
to utility poles — Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 380-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427

Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation
Summer Safety Education Film Series — safety education programming on drug use, violence
and crime prevention — agreement — Community Development (Ward 16 CRF) (O 373-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428

Board of Control — Architecture and Site Development Division
New Fire Station 36 — approve subcontractors — Contract PI2014-60 per Ord. 509-14 —
Capital Projects Office (BOC Res. 108-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431
TV-20 Broadcast Studio Improvements — approve subcontractor — Contract #PI2015*47 per
BOC Res. 475-15 — Capital Projects Office (BOC Res. 109-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
East 28th St. (Community College Ave. to Central Ave.) — rescind BOC Res. 72-16 —
per Ord. 1099-15 to Terrace Construction Co., Inc. — Division of Engineering
& Construction (BOC Res. 111-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Material Testing, Geotechnical, Environmental, and General Engineering Services — amend
BOC Res. 116-15 — first modify Contract #PS2015*114 per BOC Res. 1523-14 (BOC Res. 110-16)
New Fire Station 36 — approve subcontractors — Contract PI2014-60 per Ord. 509-14 —
Division of Architecture and Site Development (BOC Res. 108-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TV-20 Broadcast Studio Improvements — approve subcontractor — Contract #PI2015*47 per
BOC Res. 475-15 — Division of Architecture and Site Development (BOC Res. 109-16) . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 431
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 431
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 431
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Exterior terminal building facade and terminal ticketing lobby rehabilitation — approve
subcontractor — Contract #PI2015*022 per BOC Res. 72-15 — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 107-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Ridge Road Ring Bus Project — approve subcontractor — Contract #PI2014*55 — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 106-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Angelus Avenue (Ward 2) — PPNs 137-23-092/093 — Bobbie Jean Johnson (BOC Res. 118-16) .
London Road, 871 (Ward 8) — PPN 116-20-069 — Brian Kesman (BOC Res. 117-16) . . . . . . . . . .
Marshall Avenue, 9109 (Ward 6) — PPN 127-11-113 — Myra Simmons (BOC Res. 119-16) . . . . . .
West 49th Street, 3540 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-21-020 — Diana L. Ables (BOC Res. 116-16). . . . . .
West 88th Street, 3146 (Ward 14) — PPN 017-04-054 — Auday Al Abdulla (BOC Res. 120-16) . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

433
433
433
433
434

Board of Control — Concession Agreement
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Cleveland Clinic Children’s Gala Event
at Cleveland Convention Center on May 7, 2016 — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to
MVP Services, LLC — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 114-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Rock Hall Spring Benefit Event at
Cleveland Public Auditorium on May 6, 2016 — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to MVP Services,
LLC — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 113-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
East 28th St. (Community College Ave. to Central Ave.) — rescind BOC Res. 72-16 —
per Ord. 1099-15 to Terrace Construction Co., Inc. — Capital Projects Office (BOC Res. 111-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

450

March 23, 2016

The City Record

35

Board of Control — Finance Department
Hand-held Tools and Hand-held Power Tools — per Ord. 1222-14 — all bids
rejected (BOC Res. 104-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
Medical supplies and Equipment — per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)14 — all bids rejected
(BOC Res. 105-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products — Report for February, 2016 — Division
of Purchases and Supplies (BOC Res. 103-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Angelus Avenue (Ward 2) — PPNs 137-23-092/093 — Bobbie Jean Johnson (BOC Res. 118-16) .
London Road, 871 (Ward 8) — PPN 116-20-069 — Brian Kesman (BOC Res. 117-16) . . . . . . . . . .
Marshall Avenue, 9109 (Ward 6) — PPN 127-11-113 — Myra Simmons (BOC Res. 119-16) . . . . . .
West 49th Street, 3540 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-21-020 — Diana L. Ables (BOC Res. 116-16). . . . . .
West 88th Street, 3146 (Ward 14) — PPN 017-04-054 — Auday Al Abdulla (BOC Res. 120-16) . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

433
433
433
433
434

Board of Control — Land Sales
Chester Avenue, 10600 (PPNs 119-20-018/027) including Option to Purchase Greenspace
Property (various parcels) — sell to UC City Center, LLC per Ord. 1471-15 — Division
of Purchases and Supplies (BOC Res. 112-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432

Board of Control — Park Maintenance and Properties Division
City-wide Tree Planting — per Ord. 387-15 to Zscape, LLC — Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Exterior terminal building facade and terminal ticketing lobby rehabilitation — approve
subcontractor — Contract #PI2015*022 per BOC Res. 72-15 — Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 107-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Material Testing, Geotechnical, Environmental, and General Engineering Services — amend
BOC Res. 116-15 — first modify Contract #PS2015*114 per BOC Res. 1523-14 — Capital
Projects Office (BOC Res. 110-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
East 28th St. (Community College Ave. to Central Ave.) — rescind BOC Res. 72-16 —
per Ord. 1099-15 to Terrace Construction Co., Inc. — Division of Engineering
& Construction, Capital Projects Office (BOC Res. 111-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exterior terminal building facade and terminal ticketing lobby rehabilitation — approve
subcontractor — Contract #PI2015*022 per BOC Res. 72-15 — Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 107-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New Fire Station 36 — approve subcontractors — Contract PI2014-60 per Ord. 509-14 —
Division of Architecture and Site Development, Capital Projects Office (BOC Res. 108-16) .
Ridge Road Ring Bus Project — approve subcontractor — Contract #PI2014*55 — Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 106-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TV-20 Broadcast Studio Improvements — approve subcontractor — Contract #PI2015*47 per
BOC Res. 475-15 — Division of Architecture and Site Development, Capital Projects Office
(BOC Res. 109-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Ridge Road Ring Bus Project — approve subcontractor — Contract #PI2014*55 — Division of
Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 106-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

Board of Control — Public Works Department
City-wide Tree Planting — per Ord. 387-15 to Zscape, LLC — Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties (BOC Res. 115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Cleveland Clinic Children’s Gala Event
at Cleveland Convention Center on May 7, 2016 — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to
MVP Services, LLC (BOC Res. 114-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Rock Hall Spring Benefit Event at
Cleveland Public Auditorium on May 6, 2016 — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to MVP Services,
LLC (BOC Res. 113-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432

451

The City Record

36

March 23, 2016

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Chester Avenue, 10600 (PPNs 119-20-018/027) including Option to Purchase Greenspace
Property (various parcels) — sell to UC City Center, LLC per Ord. 1471-15 (BOC Res. 112-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products — Report for February, 2016 (BOC Res. 103-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
City-wide Tree Planting — per Ord. 387-15 to Zscape, LLC — Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432
Hand-held Tools and Hand-held Power Tools — per Ord. 1222-14 — all bids rejected — Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 104-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
Medical supplies and Equipment — per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)14 — all bids rejected — Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 105-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431

Board of Control — Willard Park Garage
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Cleveland Clinic Children’s Gala Event
at Cleveland Convention Center on May 7, 2016 — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to
MVP Services, LLC — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 114-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432
Valet parking service at Willard Parking Garage — Rock Hall Spring Benefit Event at
Cleveland Public Auditorium on May 6, 2016 — per C.O. Sec. 183.04 to MVP Services,
LLC — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 113-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadway Avenue, 5162 (Ward 5) – Community Assessment and Treatment Services, owner —
appeal postponed to 4/25/16 on 3/21/16 (Cal. 16-22) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Road, 12523 (Ward 6) – Howard Levine, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 3/21/16 (Cal. 15-236) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Road, 12603 (Ward 6) – Carlin and Sunnah McNary, owners — appeal heard on
3/21/16 (Cal. 16-20). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corlett Avenue, 11701 (Ward 2) – Darnell Dozier, owner — appeal dismissed on
3/21/16 (Cal. 15-261). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 101st Street, 1900 (Ward 7) – Innova Phase 2 L.P., owner — appeal postponed
to 4/25/16 on 3/21/16 (Cal. 16-28). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th Street, 2631 (Ward 3) – Ohio Awning LLC, owner — appeal postponed from 2/16/16
on 4/4/16 (Cal. 15-250) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 191st Street, 4304 (Ward 17) – Marilyn A. Lombardo, owner — appeal heard on 3/21/16
(Cal. 16-23) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1616 (Ward 3) – Ojala Properties, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 3/21/16 (Cal. 16-4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 44th Street, 2052 (Ward 3) – B.R. Knez, prospective purchaser — appeal heard
on 3/21/16 (Cal. 16-25) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 73rd Street, 1345 (Ward 15) – John C. Boehm, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
3/21/16 (Cal. 15-249). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Schaaf Road, 1627 (Ward 13) – Robert Skirkenic, owner — appeal dismissed on 3/21/16
(Cal. 16-24) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Freeman Avenue, 1901 (Ward 3) – 1901 Freeman LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/4/16
(Cal. 16-36) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Freeman Avenue, 1903 (Ward 3) – 1901 Freeman LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/4/16
(Cal. 16-37) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jay Avenue, 2515 (Ward 3) – 2515 Company LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/4/16
(Cal. 16-35) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Road, 3934 (Ward 1) – Strawbridge Family Corp., owner — appeal to be heard on 4/4/16
(Cal. 16-34) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mandalay Avenue, 15741 (Ward 8) – Mandalay Properties — appeal to be heard on
4/4/16 (Cal. 16-39). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Munn Road, 15529 (Ward 17) – Charles Barrett, owner — appeal to be heard on 4/4/16
(Cal. 16-33) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434

Bonds
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds — $ 22,750,000 — Finance Department (O 336-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $625,000 — Finance Department
(O 334-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $ 4,750,000 — Finance Department (O 335-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Budget
Appropriations — Year 2016 — current expenses and other expenses — Finance
Department (O 125-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430

452

March 23, 2016

The City Record

37

Capital Projects
Broome Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(R 158-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St., and Scovill Ave. — May 25 to
June 24 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — banners (Ward 05) (O 368-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clarkwood Rd. (between Central Ave. and Cedar Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 22-16) . . . . . . . .
Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — distributed
antenna system nodes and duct banks — City Planning Commission (Ward 04 and 12)
(O 191-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area — encroach into right-of-way — banners —
attached to utility poles — Downtown Cleveland Alliance — City Planning Commission
(Ward 03) (O 380-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 96th St. (between Euclid Ave., and Carnegie Ave.) — PPN 119-17-006 — acquire easement
for sidewalk — The Cleveland Clinic (Ward 06) (O 23-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. (between Coltman Rd., and Lakeview Rd.) — add secondary name of James
A. Garfield Way — City Planning Commission (Wards 06, 09) (O 367-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Highland Park Golf Course — replacing the bridge and renovating the irrigation system —
public improvement contracts — Works Department (O 195-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — petroleum pipelines —
Buckeye Partners, L.P. (Ward 03) (O 1514-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Kidney Foundation, Annual Walk — June 5th — National Kidney Foundation
(Ward 03) (O 344-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Court N.E., vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 258-16) . . . . . . . . .
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 09)
(R 1513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safe Routes to School Program — accept grants — City Planning Commission — Ohio
Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 365-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation project — appropriate easement — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (R 78-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and
or surrounding pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Works Department
(Ward 06) (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (R 1512-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 440
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437

City Council
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — March 21 meeting (F 374-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

City of Cleveland Bids
2016 Summer Food Services Program — 3 Month Breakfast & Lunches — Department of Public
Works — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 1293-15 — bid due April 8, 2016 (advertised
3/23/2016 and 3/30/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2016 Summer Food Services Program — Camp Forbes — Department of Public Works —
Division of Recreation — per Ord. 1293-15 — bid due April 8, 2016 (advertised 3/23/2016
and 3/30/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grinding of Pavement — Department of Public Works — Division of Streets — per Ord.
1405-15 — bid due April 6, 2016 (advertised 3/16/2016 and 3/23/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repair, Maintenance, and Upgrade of Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
System — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water Pollution Control — per
Ord. 796-14 — bid due April 15, 2016 (advertised 3/23/2016 and 3/30/2016) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewer Test Tee Inspection, Installation and Snaking — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 541-13 — bid due April 15, 2016 (advertised
3/23/2016 and 3/30/2016). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437

City Planning Commission
Adult entertainment — amend Section 347.07 (O 922-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broome Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward
03) (R 158-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Castle Ave., and Buhrer Ave. (between I-71 and Quigley Rd.) — change Use Districts (Ward
03) (O 1370-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clarkwood Rd. (between Central Ave. and Cedar Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 22-16) . . . . . . . . . .
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
Use District (Ward 15) (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — distributed
antenna system nodes and duct banks — Capital Projects Office (Ward 04 and 12)
(O 191-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establish Opportunity Corridor Design Review District — north and south side of the
Opportunity Corridor roadway (between East 55th St. and Cedar Ave.) (Ward 05)
(O 118-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establish Rockport Design Review District — West 130th St. (between Kirton Ave. and Astor
Ave.) (Ward 16) (O 72-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

453

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430

The City Record

38

Euclid Ave. (between Coltman Rd., and Lakeview Rd.) — add secondary name of James
A. Garfield Way — Capital Projects Office (Wards 06, 09) (O 367-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Court N.E., vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 05) (O 258-16). . . . . . . . . . . .
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 09)
(R 1513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safe Routes to School Program — accept grants — Capital Projects Office — Ohio Department
of Transportation (ODOT) (O 365-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation project — appropriate easement — Capital
Projects Office (Ward 03) (R 78-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects Office (Ward 07) (R 1512-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Form Overlay Districts and Urban Core Overlay Districts — enact Sections
348.01 through 348.05 (O 364-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St.(south of Erwin Ave. to Sprecher Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts (Ward 16) (O 73-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St. (between University Rd., and Marquardt Ave.) — establish new setbacks
(Ward 03) (O 254-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

March 23, 2016
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436

Clerk Of Council
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — March 21 meeting (F 374-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
East 96th St. (between Euclid Ave., and Carnegie Ave.) — PPN 119-17-006 — acquire easement
for sidewalk — Capital Projects Office (Ward 06) (O 23-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428

Cleveland Foundation
Halloran Park Hockey program — Grants — Works Department (F 375-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (CHIA)
Arconas Corporation — renew Contract No. RCD 2014-55 — install power outlets and USB ports
(O 190-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
United Airlines, Inc. fka Continental Airlines, Inc. — amend Contract No. CAL 1989 for
Concourse “C” and Contract No. CAL 1997 for Concourse “D” — change terms of leases
(O 291-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Cleveland Housing Network (CHN)
Energy, water and sewer conservation programs administration — low — income utility
customers — Utilities Department (O 363-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420

Cleveland Metropolitan Park District
Board of Park Commissioners — property adoption agreement — Community Development —
public improvements — former U.S. Coast Guard Station (O 259-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Cleveland Municipal Court
Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program — grant — Ohio Supreme Court (O 329-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Cleveland Public Power (CPP)
Energy, water and sewer conservation programs administration — low — income utility
customers — Cleveland Housing Network — Utilities Department (O 363-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420
Paint poles and other street side elements — contracts — Utilities Department (O 362-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC, Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement —
Utilities Department (O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Codified Ordinances
Adult entertainment — amend Section 347.07 (O 922-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boxing and Wrestling Commission — amend Section 173.20 — amend Ord. 1759-A-76 — Finance
Department (O 262-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Firearms, Ammunition, Helmets, Tasers, and K-9 Police Dogs; Purchase of — amend Section
135.065 — Safety Department (O 76-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Form Overlay Districts and Urban Core Overlay Districts — enact Sections
348.01 through 348.05 — City Planning Commission (O 364-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420

Communications
Dreyer, Allan — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — March 21 meeting (F 374-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
West, Nycole — oath of office — Interim Director — Human Resources Department (F 369-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

454

March 23, 2016

The City Record

39

Community Development
Amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ord. No. 519-14 — Administrative expenses — appropriating CDBG
and HOME Funds (O 148-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District — property adoption
agreement — public improvements — former U.S. Coast Guard Station (O 259-16) . . . . . . . . .
Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art and music instruction
to city of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the Arts — agreement
(Ward(s) 05, 12 CRF) (O 345-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program (2016) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXII —
Grants (O 115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Safety Education Film Series — safety education programming on drug use, violence
and crime prevention — Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation — agreement
(Ward 16 CRF) (O 373-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428

Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG)
Amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ord. No. 519-14 — Administrative expenses — appropriating CDBG
and HOME Funds — Community Development Department (O 148-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program (2016) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXII —
Community Development Department — Grants (O 115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442

Condolences
Wooten, Linda Darnell-Johnson (R 376-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

Congratulations
Hudson, Margo (R 377-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
Sokolowski Family (R 378-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

Contracts
ADB Airfield Solutions, LLC — maintain, repair and modify electrical systems at airport
properties (O 189-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arconas Corporation — renew Contract No. RCD 2014-55 — install power outlets and USB ports —
CHIA (O 190-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Asphalt concrete, recycled or virgin — Streets Division — Works Department (O 194-16) . . . . . . .
Chagrin Highlands, Ltd. — Master Development Agreement — Amend City Contract No. 40622 —
Economic Development Department (O 149-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County — Cuyahoga County Criminal
Justice Services Agency — Safety Department — Grant (O 257-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art and music instruction
to city of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the Arts — agreement —
Community Development Department (Ward(s) 05, 12 CRF) (O 345-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corporate Wings Hopkins LLC, dba Atlantic Aviation — amend Contract No. 24675 — extending
their lease (O 198-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development Department — Municipal Utility District Agreement — income tax
sharing with Highland Hills for Chagrin Highlands (O 155-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Energy, water and sewer conservation programs administration — low — income utility
customers — Cleveland Housing Network — Utilities Department (O 363-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Firearms, Ammunition, Helmets, Tasers, and K-9 Police Dogs; Purchase of — amend Section
135.065 — Safety Department (O 76-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Highland Park Golf Course — replacing the bridge and renovating the irrigation system —
public improvement — Works Department — Capital Projects Office (O 195-16) . . . . . . . . . . .
New World Systems, Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure dba Intergraph Corporation, and
Winbourne Consulting, LLC — Safety IT projects — professional service contracts to
implement the upgrades to mobile field reporting — Computer Aided Dispatch System
(O 152-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — USEPA Brownfield Assessment grant funding; FY 2015 —
Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga County Board of Health, Northeast Ohio First Suburbs
Consortium — agreement — Economic Development Department (O 157-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paint poles and other street side elements — Cleveland Public Power — Utilities Department
(O 362-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC , Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement —
Utilities Department — CPP (O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quality assurance and surveying services — renew Contract No. PS 2014-113 — Solar Testing
Laboratories, Inc. (O 366-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safe Routes to School Program — accept grants — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 365-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, large capacity with operators — rental of — Streets Division — Works Department
(O 122-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
United Airlines, Inc. fka Continental Airlines, Inc. — amend Contract No. CAL 1989 for
Concourse “C” and Contract No. CAL 1997 for Concourse “D” — change terms of leases —
CHIA (O 291-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

455

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 440

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

The City Record

40

March 23, 2016

Cuyahoga County
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County Criminal Justice
Services Agency — Safety Department — Grant (O 257-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — accept 2016 funding for illegal dumping — Public
Safety’s Environmental Crimes Task Force (O 75-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — USEPA Brownfield Assessment grant funding; FY 2015 —
Cuyahoga County Board of Health, Northeast Ohio First Suburbs Consortium —
agreement — Economic Development Department (O 157-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445

Easements
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation project — appropriate easement — Capital
Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (R 78-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
Works Department — deeds of easement — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for
Otter Park — gift of public improvement (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 441

Economic Development Department
Chagrin Highlands, Ltd. — Master Development Agreement — Amend City Contract No. 40622
(O 149-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
Municipal Utility District Agreement — income tax sharing with Highland Hills for Chagrin
Highlands (O 155-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — USEPA Brownfield Assessment grant funding; FY 2015 —
Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga County Board of Health, Northeast Ohio First Suburbs
Consortium — agreement (O 157-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445

Encroachments
Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — right-of-way — distributed antenna system
nodes and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 04 and 12) (O 191-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area — right-of-way — banners — attached to utility
poles — Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (O 380-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — right-of-way — petroleum pipelines — Buckeye
Partners, L.P. — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1514-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle — various locations — right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and or surrounding
pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Capital Projects Office — Works
Department (Ward 06) (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 440

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446

Finance Department
Appropriations — Year 2016 — current expenses and other expenses (O 125-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boxing and Wrestling Commission — amend Section 173.20 — amend Ord. 1759-A-76 (O 262-16)
Bridges and Roadways Improvement Bonds — $ 22,750,000 (O 336-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collinwood Athletic Complex (expansion) — acquire property — Octavia Land Company —
Works Department (Ward 08) (O 117-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — $625,000 (O 334-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — $ 4,750,000 (O 335-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program — Cleveland Municipal Court — grant — Ohio
Supreme Court (O 329-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Grants
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County — Cuyahoga County Criminal
Justice Services Agency — Safety Department — Grant (O 257-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program (2016) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXII —
Community Development Department (O 115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Halloran Park Hockey program — Cleveland Foundation — Works Department (F 375-16) . . . .
Northcoast Brownfield Coalition — USEPA Brownfield Assessment grant funding; FY 2015 —
Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga County Board of Health, Northeast Ohio First Suburbs
Consortium — agreement — Economic Development Department (O 157-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safe Routes to School Program — accept grants — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 365-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Specialized Dockets Payroll Subsidy Program — Cleveland Municipal Court -Ohio Supreme
Court (O 329-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Highland Park Golf Course
Replacing the Bridge and renovating the Irrigation System — public improvement contracts —
Works Department — Capital Projects Office (O 195-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446

House Bill
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430

456

March 23, 2016

The City Record

41

Housing And Urban Development (HUD)
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program (2016) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXII —
Community Development Department — Grants (O 115-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442

Human Resources Department
West, Nycole — oath of office — Interim Director (F 369-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

Illegal Dumping
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — accept 2016 funding — Public Safety’s Environmental
Crimes Task Force (O 75-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428

Income Tax
Economic Development Department — Municipal Utility District Agreement — income
tax sharing with Highland Hills for Chagrin Highlands (O 155-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444

Lease By Way Of Concession
Cleveland Public Library — renew — Eastman Reading Garden in Eastman Park — Works
Department (O 153-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444

Leases
Corporate Wings Hopkins LLC, dba Atlantic Aviation — amend Contract No. 24675 — extending
their lease (O 198-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
United Airlines, Inc. fka Continental Airlines, Inc. — amend Contract No. CAL 1989 for
Concourse “C” and Contract No. CAL 1997 for Concourse “D” — change terms of leases —
CHIA (O 291-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Licenses
University Circle — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and
or surrounding pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Capital Projects
Office — Works Department (Ward 06) (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446

Liquor Permits
Denison Ave., 6625 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 14) (R 339-16) . . . . . . .
East 65th St., 3850 (1st fl. east unit) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 12)
(R 341-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st St., 3924 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1081-12 (Ward 12)
(R 351-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th St., 3145 — withdraw objection to transfer of location — repeal Res. 1244-15
(Ward 05) (R 340-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Rd., 10825 — new application (Ward 04) (F 371-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 12307 — objection to issuance (Ward 08) (R 353-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 2309 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 07) (R 355-16) . . . . . . .
Uptown Ave., 11454 — new application (Ward 06) (F 372-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 4611 — objection to transfer of stock (Ward 16) (R 352-16). . . . . . . . . . .
West 85th St., 2184 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 15) (R 343-16) . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd., 3029 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 04) (F 370-16) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 438
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 439
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

438
419
439
439
419
439
438
419

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD)
Works Department — deeds of easement — property adoption agreement for Otter Park — gift
of public improvement (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 441

Oath Of Office
West, Nycole — Interim Director — Human Resources Department (F 369-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

Ohio Department Of Transportation (ODOT)
Safe Routes to School Program — accept grants — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 365-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427

Permits
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St., and Scovill Ave. — May 25 to
June 24 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — banners — Capital Projects Office
(Ward 05) (O 368-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428

457

The City Record

42

March 23, 2016

Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — distributed
antenna system nodes and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 04 and 12) (O 191-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area — encroach into right-of-way — banners —
attached to utility poles — Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Capital Projects Office —
City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 380-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — petroleum pipelines —
Buckeye Partners, L.P. — Capital Projects Office (Ward 03) (O 1514-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Kidney Foundation, Annual Walk — June 5th — National Kidney Foundation
(Ward 03) (O 344-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and
or surrounding pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Capital Projects
Office — Works Department (Ward 06) (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 440
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446

Police Division
New World Systems, Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure dba Intergraph Corporation, and
Winbourne Consulting, LLC — Safety IT projects — professional service contracts to
implement the upgrades to mobile field reporting — Computer Aided Dispatch System
(O 152-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Port Control Department
ADB Airfield Solutions, LLC — contracts — maintain, repair and modify electrical systems
at airport properties (O 189-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arconas Corporation — renew Contract No. RCD 2014-55 — install power outlets and USB ports —
CHIA (O 190-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corporate Wings Hopkins LLC, dba Atlantic Aviation — amend Contract No. 24675 — extending
their lease (O 198-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quality assurance and surveying services — renew Contract No. PS 2014-113 — Solar Testing
Laboratories, Inc. (O 366-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
United Airlines, Inc. fka Continental Airlines, Inc. — amend Contract No. CAL 1989 for
Concourse “C” and Contract No. CAL 1997 for Concourse “D” — change terms of leases —
CHIA (O 291-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Professional Services
Energy, water and sewer conservation programs administration — low — income utility
customers — Cleveland Housing Network — Utilities Department (O 363-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420
New World Systems, Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure dba Intergraph Corporation, and
Winbourne Consulting, LLC — Safety IT projects — contracts to implement the upgrades
to mobile field reporting — Computer Aided Dispatch System (O 152-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC , Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement —
Utilities Department — CPP (O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Public Hearing (Notices)
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
West 6th St. (between University Rd., and Marquardt Ave.) — establish new setbacks — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 254-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436

Public Improvements
Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District — property adoption
agreement — Community Development — former U.S. Coast Guard Station (O 259-16) . . . . .
Highland Park Golf Course — replacing the bridge and renovating the irrigation system —
contracts — Works Department — Capital Projects Office (O 195-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC , Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement —
Utilities Department — CPP (O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safe Routes to School Program — accept grants — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission — Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) (O 365-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Works Department — deeds of easement — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for
Otter Park — gift (O 1516-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 441

Public Works
Asphalt concrete, recycled or virgin — Streets Division (O 194-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
Cleveland Public Library — renew — Lease By Way of Concession — Eastman Reading
Garden in Eastman Park (O 153-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
Collinwood Athletic Complex (expansion) — acquire property — Octavia Land Company —
Finance Department (Ward 08) (O 117-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443

458

March 23, 2016

The City Record

Deeds of easement — NEORSD — property adoption agreement for Otter Park — gift of public
improvement (O 1516-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Halloran Park Hockey program — Cleveland Foundation — Grants (F 375-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Highland Park Golf Course — replacing the bridge and renovating the irrigation system —
public improvement contracts — Capital Projects Office (O 195-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, large capacity with operators — rental of — Streets Division (O 122-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and
or surrounding pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Capital Projects
Office (Ward 06) (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

43
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 441
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 440

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446

Purchases And Supplies Division
Collinwood Athletic Complex (expansion) — acquire property — Octavia Land Company —
Finance Department — Works Department (Ward 08) (O 117-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
East 96th St. (between Euclid Ave., and Carnegie Ave.) — PPN 119-17-006 — acquire easement
for sidewalk — The Cleveland Clinic — Capital Projects Office (Ward 06) (O 23-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428

Races
National Kidney Foundation, Annual Walk — June 5th — National Kidney Foundation
(Ward 03) (O 344-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

Recognition
Knights of Peter Claver and Ladies Auxiliary — 78th Annual Northern States District
Conference — Recognition (R 379-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420

Resolution Of Support
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430

Safety Department
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2015 — Cuyahoga County — Cuyahoga County Criminal
Justice Services Agency — Grant (O 257-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District — accept 2016 funding for illegal dumping — Public
Safety’s Environmental Crimes Task Force (O 75-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Firearms, Ammunition, Helmets, Tasers, and K-9 Police Dogs; Purchase of — amend Section
135.065 (O 76-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New World Systems, Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure dba Intergraph Corporation, and
Winbourne Consulting, LLC — Safety IT projects — professional service contracts to
implement the upgrades to mobile field reporting — Computer Aided Dispatch System
(O 152-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Street Vacation
Broome Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (R 158-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Court N.E., vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(Ward 05) (O 258-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (Ward 09) (R 1513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Ward 07)
(R 1512-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437

Streets — Name
Clarkwood Rd. (between Central Ave. and Cedar Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 22-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
Euclid Ave. (between Coltman Rd., and Lakeview Rd.) — add secondary name of James
A. Garfield Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Wards 06, 09)
(O 367-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427

Streets Division
Asphalt concrete, recycled or virgin — Works Department (O 194-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
Trucks, large capacity with operators — rental of — Works Department (O 122-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 440

Tax Credits
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430

459

The City Record

44

March 23, 2016

Utilities Department
Energy, water and sewer conservation programs administration — low — income utility
customers — Cleveland Housing Network (O 363-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420
Paint poles and other street side elements — contracts — Cleveland Public Power (O 362-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420
Project Icebreaker (offshore wind energy project) — Fred Olsen Renewables USA LLC , Lake
Erie Energy Development Corporation (LEEDCo) — Interconnection agreement — CPP
(O 156-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Ward 01
Knights of Peter Claver and Ladies Auxiliary — 78th Annual Northern States District
Conference — Recognition (R 379-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420
Senior Lawn Care Program — grass cutting and lawn maintenance — Court Community
Service — agreement — Aging Department (Ward 01 CRF) (O 346-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449

Ward 03
Broome Court N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (R 158-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Castle Ave., and Buhrer Ave. (between I-71 and Quigley Rd.) — change Use Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 1370-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown Cleveland Alliance Service Area — encroach into right-of-way — banners —
attached to utility poles — Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Capital Projects Office —
City Planning Commission (O 380-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Independence Rd. and Rockefeller Ave. — encroach into right-of-way — petroleum pipelines —
Buckeye Partners, L.P. — Capital Projects Office (O 1514-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Kidney Foundation, Annual Walk — June 5th — National Kidney Foundation
(O 344-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton/Carter Road Rehabilitation project — appropriate easement — Capital
Projects Office — City Planning Commission (R 78-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sokolowski Family — Congratulations (R 378-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St. (between University Rd., and Marquardt Ave.) — establish new setbacks — City
Planning Commission (O 254-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 440
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436

Ward 04
Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — distributed
antenna system nodes and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 04 and 12) (O 191-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
Kinsman Rd., 10825 — new application — liquor permit (F 371-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
Woodhill Rd., 3029 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 370-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

Ward 05
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation — East 55th St., and Scovill Ave. — May 25 to
June 24 — Annual Ward 5 Family Festival — banners — Capital Projects
Office (O 368-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clarkwood Rd. (between Central Ave. and Cedar Ave.) — secondary and honorary designation —
Priscilla Elizabeth Walton Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (O 22-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art and music instruction
to city of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the Arts — agreement —
Community Development Department (Ward(s) 05, 12 CRF) (O 345-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 79th St., 3145 — withdraw objection to transfer of location — repeal Res. 1244-15 —
liquor permit (R 340-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establish Opportunity Corridor Design Review District — north and south side of the
Opportunity Corridor roadway (between East 55th St. and Cedar Ave.) — City Planning
Commission (O 118-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Court N.E., vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission
(O 258-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 438

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

Ward 06
East 96th St. (between Euclid Ave., and Carnegie Ave.) — PPN 119-17-006 — acquire easement
for sidewalk — The Cleveland Clinic — Capital Projects Office (O 23-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. (between Coltman Rd., and Lakeview Rd.) — add secondary name of James
A. Garfield Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Wards 06, 09)
(O 367-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Circle — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — 40 Story Poles and
or surrounding pads — license agreement — University Circle Inc. — Capital Projects
Office — Works Department (O 250-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uptown Ave., 11454 — new application — liquor permit (F 372-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

460

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

March 23, 2016

The City Record

45

Ward 07
St. Clair Ave., 2309 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 355-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 439
Un-named alley north of Superior Ave. N.E., east of East 21st St. — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (R 1512-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437

Ward 08
Collinwood Athletic Complex (expansion) — acquire property — Octavia Land Company —
Finance Department — Works Department (O 117-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
St. Clair Ave., 12307 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 353-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 439

Ward 09
Euclid Ave. (between Coltman Rd., and Lakeview Rd.) — add secondary name of James
A. Garfield Way — Capital Projects Office — City Planning Commission (Wards 06, 09)
(O 367-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
Reserve Court N.E. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects Office — City
Planning Commission (R 1513-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437

Ward 12
Community Arts Instruction and Enrichment Program — providing art and music instruction
to city of Cleveland youth — Broadway School of Music & the Arts — agreement —
Community Development Department (Ward(s) 05, 12 CRF) (O 345-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crown Castle NG East, LLC — various locations — encroach into right-of-way — distributed
antenna system nodes and duct banks — Capital Projects Office — City Planning
Commission (Ward 04 and 12) (O 191-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 65th St., 3850 (1st fl. east unit) — objection to transfer of ownership —
liquor permit (R 341-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st St., 3924 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1081-12 — liquor permit
(R 351-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 438
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 439

Ward 13
Supporting HB 475 — Motion Picture Tax Credit (R 350-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
Wooten, Linda Darnell-Johnson — Condolence (R 376-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

Ward 14
Denison Ave., 6625 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 339-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437
Hudson, Margo — Congratulations (R 377-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419

Ward 15
Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
Use District — City Planning Commission (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
West 85th St., 2184 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 343-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 438

Ward 16
Establish Rockport Design Review District — West 130th St. (between Kirton Ave. and Astor
Ave.) — City Planning Commission (O 72-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Safety Education Film Series — safety education programming on drug use, violence
and crime prevention — Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation — agreement —
Community Development (Ward 16 CRF) (O 373-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St.(south of Erwin Ave. to Sprecher Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (O 73-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 4611 — objection to transfer of stock — liquor permit (R 352-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 439

Water Division
Energy, water and sewer conservation programs administration — low — income utility
customers — Cleveland Housing Network — Utilities Department (O 363-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420

Water Pollution Control Division (WPC)
Energy, water and sewer conservation programs administration — low — income utility
customers — Cleveland Housing Network — Utilities Department (O 363-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420

Zoning
Castle Ave., and Buhrer Ave. (between I-71 and Quigley Rd.) — change Use Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 1370-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

461

The City Record

46

Clifton Blvd., south of Lake Ave. (between West 117th St. and West 115th St.) — change
Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 1511-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establish Opportunity Corridor Design Review District — north and south side of the
Opportunity Corridor roadway (between East 55th St. and Cedar Ave.) — City Planning
Commission (Ward 05) (O 118-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establish Rockport Design Review District — West 130th St. (between Kirton Ave. and Astor
Ave.) — City Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 72-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St.(south of Erwin Ave. to Sprecher Ave.) — change Use, Area and Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 16) (O 73-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St. (between University Rd., and Marquardt Ave.) — establish new setbacks — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 254-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

March 23, 2016
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436

Zoning Code
Adult entertainment — amend Section 347.07 (O 922-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428

462

