The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
November the Fifteenth, Two Thousand

Mayor
Michael R. White

President of Council
Michael D. Polensek
Clerk of Council
Ruby F. Moss
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Odelia V. Robinson
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
29
29
33
34
35
37
37
37
39
49
50

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Michael D. Polensek
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
44128
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
44105
Odelia V. Robinson................................3448 East 123rd Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
44115
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
44108
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
44105
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3032 Vega Avenue
44113
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
44109
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
44144
Timothy J. Melena ........................6110 West Clinton Avenue
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
44102
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
44111
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
44111
Clerk of Council – Ruby F. Moss, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin.
MAYOR – Michael R. White
Judith Zimomra, Chief of Staff
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Susan E. Axelrod, Senior Executive Assistant for Health and Human Services
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Development
Reuben Sheperd, Executive Assistant for Services
Nina Turner, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Cornell P. Carter, Director, Pinky Carr, Chief Counsel,
Room 106
Lauren Moore, Chief City Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice Center
8th Floor, Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Ronald E. Brooks, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Marilyn Henderson, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert C. Brown, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – Myrana Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Diante Fritzgerald, Acting Commissioner,
1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Robert Dolan, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Daniel Jarvis, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – LaVonne Sheffield-McClain, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Mark D. Vanloh, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – ___________________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Acting
Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Paul Burik, Acting Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Michele C. Whitlow, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS – Health – Cheri Hahn, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Donald Culp, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cleveland House of
Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Martin L. Flask, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg.,
1300 Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Traffic Engineering & Parking – Lt. Richard Petrencsik, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Nicholas P. Jackson,
Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner, Public
Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY D EVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Donald T. Moss, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Jeffrey K. Patterson, Director,

Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren, Director,

Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Dolores Alexander, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Dennis D. Dove, Director; Mayor

Michael R. White, Chairman Ex– Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Dona Brady, Councilman Joe Cimperman,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIV IL SE RVICE COMMISS ION – Ro om 11 9, Anne Bloom be rg, Pre si de nt;
__________________________, Vice President; Gregory J. Wilson, Secretary;

Timothy J. Cosgrove, Member, Rev. Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy Hruby, Asst.

Sec’y.; Martin Carmody, Director; Council President Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman; Members;

Chris Carmody, Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.

Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members – D. Cox,
P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Cornell P. Carter,

President; Finance Director Ronald E. Brooks, Secretary; Council President
Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law

Director Cornell P. Carter; Councilman Nelson Cintron, Jr.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Cornell P.

Carter; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Michael D.
Polensek.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Acting Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Edward D. Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Chairman;
Finance Director Ronald E. Brooks; Council President Michael D. Polensek;
Councilman Bill Patmon; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl
S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief
Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Richard Schanfarber,
Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; Paul Burik, James Gibans, Sandra
Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen Schuerlein, Randall
Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Councilman Timothy J. Melena,
Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Colleen C. Cooney
14A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12B
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
12C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Linda M. DeLillo–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2000

Vol. 87

No. 4536

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2000
The City Record
Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

RUBY F. MOSS
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1998-2001
MONDAY
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Rybka,
Chairman; Dolan, Vice Chairman;
Brady,
Britt,
Johnson,
Sweeney,
White.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Cintron, Chairman; Sweeney,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats, Johnson, Melena, O’Malley, Westbrook,
Willis.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
White, Chairman; Lewis, Vice Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Gordon, Johnson, Jones.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.—Finance Committee: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman;
Cintron,
Dolan,
Johnson,
Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Polensek,
Robinson, Sweeney.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M.—Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Melena,
Chairman;
Lewis,
Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Cintron,
Jackson,
Jones,
Robinson,
Willis.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00 P.M.—Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Robinson,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Jackson, Westbrook, Willis.
1:30 P.M.—Legislation Committee:
Lewis, Chairman; Jones, Vice Chairman; Brady, Coats, Gordon, Johnson,
Westbrook.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

COMMUNICATIONS

10:00
A.M.—Aviation
&
Transportation Committee: Dolan, Chairman;
O’Malley,
Vice
Chairman;
Jones, Patmon, Robinson, Rybka,
Sweeney.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Polensek, Chairman; Patmon,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Cimperman,
Coats,
Gordon,
Jackson,
Melena,
Sweeney.

File No. 1985-2000.
From the Office of Equal Opportunity re: Certified MBEs and FBEs,
Reporting Period: Third Quarter,
2000. Received.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: O’Malley, Chairman; Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats,
Dolan, Melena, Polensek, Westbrook,
Willis.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Dolan,
Jackson,
O’Malley, Robinson, White.
The following Committee is subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
O’Malley, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Patmon, Sweeney.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, November 13, 2000.
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, Council Majority
Whip, William W. Patmon, in the
Chair.
Councilmen present: Brady, Britt,
Cimperman, Coats, Gordon, Jackson,
Johnson, Jones, Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Robinson, Sweeney, Westbrook,
White and Willis.
Also present were Mayor White
and Directors Carter, Brooks, Konicek, Whitlow, Hudecek, Warren,
Alexander, Dove, and Acting Directors Sheperd, Owens, Szabo, Miller
and Brown.
Absent:
Directors
Sheffield-McClain, Ricchiuto, Guzman, Jackson,
Patterson and Morrison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2976-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Rev. Larry
L. Mackey of St. Paul Lutheran
Church, located at 3222 West 86th
Street in Ward 18. Pledge of Allegiance.

File No. 1986-2000.
Agreement No. 56654 with Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation re: Cityworks Neighborhood
Matching Grant Program for Neighborhood
Beautification
Project
East Folsom Ave. Street Club. Received.
File No. 1987-2000.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Emergency Requisition (RE-30872). Received.
File No. 1988-2000.
From the Law Department re: Contract No. 56812 with Gartner Group,
Inc. — Pursuant to Ordinance No.
1425-2000. Received.
File No. 1989-2000.
From the Department of Public
Safety
re:
Gift
Received
from
Greater Cleveland Growth Association. Received.
File No. 1990-2000.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Emergency Requisition (RE-24602). Received.
File No. 1991-2000.
From the Office of Equal Opportunity re: Denials of Certification —
Third Quarter, 2000. Received.
File No. 1992-2000.
From the Department of Public
Utilities re: CPP Business Strategy
Deregulation Plan. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1993-2000.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 91610350020 - United Petroleum Marketing LLC, d.b.a. UPM
#207, 5110 Clark Avenue. (Ward 17).
Received.
File No. 1994-2000.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 91610350015 - United Petroleum Marketing LLC, d.b.a. UPM
#201, 4611 West 130th Street. (Ward
20). Received.

MOTION
On the motion of Councilman
O’Malley, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Councilman Cimperman.

2783

File No. 1995-2000.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 91610350065 - United Petroleum Marketing LLC, d.b.a. UPM
#200, 3585 West 117th Street. (Ward
19). Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 1996-2000.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 0335893 - Ezell Avery, d.b.a.
Ruby’s
Delicatessen,
7038
Wade
Park Avenue. (Ward 7). Received.
File No. 1997-2000.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application - 96100440040 Wild Oats Markets, Inc., d.b.a. Wild
Oats Market, 13130 Shaker Boulevard. (Ward 4). Received.
File No. 1998-2000.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application - 2434398 - Carla
D. Edeh, d.b.a. Club Nijer, 6611 St.
Clair Avenue. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1999-2000.
Re: Stock Transfer Application 1709357 - Convenient Food Mart, Inc.
357, d.b.a. Convenient Food Mart,
14302 Puritas Avenue. (Ward 20).
Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 2000-2000.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties re: Contract No. 56153, (#19-99b) Light Fixture Replacement at Thurgood Marshall Recreation Center. Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 2001-2000—John Strancar.
Res. No. 2002-2000—Dan R. Perkins.
Res. No. 2003-2000—Katie M. Cooper.
Res. No. 2004-2000—Robert R. Webber.
Res. No. 2005-2000—Dora Renee
Walker-Elston.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2006-2000—Slovenian National Home.
Res. No. 2007-2000—James B. Matteson.
Res.
No.
2008-2000—Thomas
C.
Schwartz.
Res.
No.
2009-2000—Gethsemane
Baptist Church.
Res. No. 2010-2000—Nellie Lee Bailey.
Res.
No.
2011-2000—Edward
F.
Rybka.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2012-2000—Brother Circle
of Cleveland.
Res. No. 2013-2000—Bakari Kitwana.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1761-A-2000 (As a substitute for Ord. No. 1761-2000).
By Councilmen Cimperman, Melena and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 4618, 4700 Lester
Avenue to Slavic Village Development Corporation or designee.

Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 123-20-095
and
123-21-031,
as
more
fully
described in Section 2 below, to Slavic Village Development Corporation
or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 123-20-095
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Northwesterly 39 feet 8 inches of Sublot
No. 15 and the Southeasterly 5 feet
of Sublot No. 16 in Jabesh Gallup’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 282, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 52 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 44 feet 8 inches front
on the Southwesterly side of Lester
Avenue, S.E., 120 feet deep on the
Southeasterly line, which is also the
Northwesterly line of Finn Avenue,
S.E., 120 feet on the Northwesterly
line and 44 feet 8 inches wide in the
rear, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
P. P. No. 123-21-031
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
11 in Cannon and Fowler’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 324 and 282, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 5 of Cuyahoga
County Records and being 33 feet
front on the Southwesterly side of
Lester Street, S.E., and extending
back 111 feet 0-3/4" deep on the
Southeasterly side, 111 feet 0-3/4"
deep on the Northwesterly side
which is also the Southeasterly line
of Finn Avenue, S.E., be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordi-

2784

November 15, 2000
nance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Without
objection,
substitute
agreed to. Ordinance No. 1761-2000
laid on the table.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2014-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 123.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1186-92,
passed June 15, 1992, relating to the
Office of Equal Opportunity; to
repeal Sections 187.01 to 187.15, as
amended or enacted by various ordinances; and to supplement said codified ordinances by enacting new
Sections 187.01 to 187.22 thereof
relating to the Cleveland Small
Business Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 123.08 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992, is amended, effective on
October 1, 2000, to read as follows:
Section 123.08 Office of Equal
Opportunity
(a) There is hereby established
in the Office of the Mayor the
Office of Equal Opportunity to be
administered and controlled by an
Executive Assistant to the Mayor
appointed by the Mayor to be the
Director of Equal Opportunity. The
Director shall appoint, in accordance with the civil service provisions of the Charter, such employees as may be required for performance of duties of the office, and
shall be responsible for their supervision.
(b) With respect to the City’s
desire to encourage employment of
minorities and women by contractors and to promote utilization of
small businesses in all public con-

November 15, 2000
tracts, it shall be the duty of the
Director of Equal Opportunity:
(1) To supervise, coordinate, monitor and enforce the implementation
of employment goals and of small
business participation goals, in the
manner described in Chapter 187 of
these Codified Ordinances for all
City contracts.
(2) To supervise, coordinate, monitor and enforce compliance by each
City contracting department with
the City’s equal employment opportunity requirements and procedures,
affirmative action plans, employment goals and small business participation goals, in the manner
described in Chapter 187 of these
Codified Ordinances for all City contracts. All compliance functions of
the various contracting departments
shall be performed in the Office of
Equal Opportunity. The Director of
Equal Opportunity shall be responsible for securing compliance by all
contractors and subcontractors with
the provisions of Chapter 187 of
these Codified Ordinances and any
implementing rules or regulations.
Contracting departments shall comply with the provisions of Chapter
187 of these Codified Ordinances and
any implementing rules or regulations of the Director of Equal Opportunity.
Contracting
departments
shall cooperate with the Director of
Equal Opportunity and shall furnish
such information and assistance as
the Director of Equal Opportunity
may require.
(3) To provide appropriate management and technical assistance to
small businesses within Cuyahoga
County so as to maximize their participation in contracts let by the
City, with such assistance to include:
A. Providing such assistance in
connection with the establishment,
expansion, and overall development
of small businesses;
B. Assisting in the arrangement of
business
associations
involving
small businesses; and
C. Planning and participation in
training seminars for the purpose of
informing potential bidders of The
Cleveland Small Business Program
and of business opportunities available.
(4) To serve as liaison with economic
development
organizations
and agencies working in support of
economic development of small businesses in Cuyahoga County.
(5) To coordinate any City-sponsored economic development programs for small businesses.
(6) To promulgate, and revise as
necessary, regulations implementing
The Cleveland Small Business Program.
(c) By February 15, the Mayor
shall file the following written
reports with the Clerk of Council
and a copy shall be provided to each
member of the Council:
(1) A report stating, for each City
department and for the City as a
whole, the percentage and total
value of contracts and subcontracts
performed by small businesses during the preceding year.
(2) A report stating, for each City
department and for the City as a
whole, the percentage and total
value of those contracts which were
performed by very small businesses
during the preceding year.
(3) Such other information related
to the small business program as
may be useful in evaluating the success of the program.

The City Record
Section 2. That existing Section
123.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed
June 15, 1992, is repealed effective
on October 1, 2000.
Section 3. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 187.01, as amended by
Ordinance No. 77-94, passed March
14, 1994,
Section 187.02, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986,
Sections 187.03 and 187.031 as
amended by Ordinance No. 1186-92,
passed June 15, 1992,
Section 187.04, as amended by
Ordinance No. 77-94, passed March
14, 1994
Section 187.05, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986,
Section 187.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992,
Sections 187.07 and 187.08, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85,
passed February 10, 1986,
Section 187.09, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992,
Section 187.10, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986
Section 187.11, as amended by
Ordinance No. 77-94, passed March
14, 1994,
Section 187.12 and 187.13, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed
February 10, 1986,
Section 187.131, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992,
Section 187.14, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986, and
Section 187.15, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992
are repealed effective on October 1,
2000.
Section 4. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Sections 187.01 to 187.22 to read,
respectively, as follows:
CHAPTER 187
THE CLEVELAND SMALL
BUSINESS CODE
Section 187.01 Definition of Terms
As used in this chapter, the following words phrases and terms
shall be defined as set forth below:
(a) “Administrator” means the
administrator of the Small Business
Enterprise and Very Small Business
Enterprise programs of the Office of
Equal Opportunity.
(b) “Bidder” means a person, firm,
association or corporation offering
to contract with the City in response
to an invitation to bid, and for purposes of this Code, may include a
proposer in response to a request for
proposals or other similar request.
(c) “City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
(d) “Cleveland contracting market” or “contracting market” means
the geographic market area consisting of Cuyahoga County, Ohio.
(e) “Cleveland Small Business
Code”, “Cleveland Small Business
Program”, “Small Business Code”,
“Code”’ or “Chapter” means all the
provisions of this Chapter 187 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.

2785

5
(f) “Construction” means the erection, rehabilitation, alteration, conversion, extension, demolition or
repair of improvements to real property, including facilities providing
utility service and includes the
supervision, inspection, and other
on-site functions incidental to construction.
(g) “Contract” means a binding
agreement executed on or after the
effective date of this Cleveland
Small Business Code whereby the
City either grants a privilege or is
committed to expend or does expend
its funds or other resources or confers a benefit having value including, but not limited to, a grant, loan,
real or personal property, or tax
incentive in any form for or in connection with any work, project or
public purpose, or for the following
purposes:
(1) Construction of any public
improvement,
including
change
orders or subsidiaries approved by
the City during the performance of
such construction;
(2) Purchase of personal property;
(3) Purchase of any services;
(4) Lease of any personal property; or
(5) Concession agreements whereby the City grants a specific permission, privilege or license in
accordance with Sections 183.04 and
183.041 of the Codified Ordinances.
“Contract” as used herein shall
include a binding agreement, funded or benefited by the City, between
a party to a contract and a third
party, but shall exclude contracts
with other public entities, except as
provided in Section 187.06.
(h)
“Contracting
department”
means any administrative department under charge of the Mayor or
any office, board or commission
treated or construed as a department of City government for any
purpose pursuant to the Charter or
ordinances of the City.
(i) “Contractor” means a separate
or distinguishable business entity
employing one or more persons and
participating or seeking to participate in the performance of a contract, including but not limited to
Small
Business
Enterprises
and
Very Small Business Enterprises
where applicable, and shall include
a party in privity with such contractor for the purpose of implementation of the contract.
(j) “Control” means the unencumbered ability to direct operations
and management.
(k) “Director” means the Director
of the Office of Equal Opportunity.
(l) “Disability” means any physical or mental impairment that substantially limit one or more of an
individual’s major activities.
(m)
“Discriminate”
means
to
exclude an individual or group solely on the basis of race, religion,
color,
sex,
sexual
orientation,
national origin, age, disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era or disabled-veteran status.
(n) “Discriminate on the basis of
age” means to discriminate as determined by appropriate Federal Law
against individuals over the age of
forty (40).
(o) “Joint venture” means an association of two or more persons or
businesses to carry out a single
business enterprise for profit for
which purpose they combine their
property, capital, efforts, skills and
knowledge.

6
(p) “OEO” means the Office of
Equal Opportunity of the City of
Cleveland.
(q) “Small Business Enterprise” or
“SBE” means a sole proprietorship,
partnership,
or
corporation
that
meets the established economic criteria for a SBE and is owned, operated and controlled by one or more
persons who meet the established
economic criteria for SBE ownership
and shall include a VSB. As used in
this definition, “the established economic criteria” shall mean the economic criteria established by the
Director in regulations promulgated
pursuant to Section 123.08 of the
Codified Ordinances. To qualify as a
SBE, the enterprise shall additionally be located and doing business
in Cuyahoga County, Ohio.
(r) “Very Small Business Enterprise” or “VSB” means a sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation that meets the established economic and size criteria for a VSB
and is owned, operated and controlled by one or more persons who
meet the established economic criteria for VSB ownership. As used in
this definition, “the established economic and size criteria” shall mean
the criteria established by the Director in regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 123.08 of the Codified Ordinances. To qualify as a
VSB, the enterprise shall additionally be located and doing business in
Cuyahoga County, Ohio.
Section 187.02 Duties of Director of
Office of Equal Opportunity
In addition to those duties specified in Section 123.08 of the Codified
Ordinances, the Director, through
the Administrator and such other
employees as are necessary, shall
implement and enforce this Code in
accordance with its provisions. The
Director’s duties shall include, but
not be limited to:
(a) Reviewing all submittals and
other information required by this
Code to determine whether particular contractors have been certified
or are certifiable:
(1) With respect to the Code’s
employment goals established pursuant to division (b) of Section
187.10;
(2) As a SBE or a VSB;
(3) As a bona fide joint venture;
(4) As having submitted a bona
fide bid with respect to OEOrequired submittals; or
(5) As being in compliance with
this Code and its regulations.
(b) Reviewing all information
this Code requires to be furnished
and notifying the affected contracting department that the certificates
or statements pertaining to particular contractors are or are not in full
force and effect with respect to the
matters for which the same were
issued;
(c) Monitoring the general performance, workforce, and subcontracting
practices
of
contractors
to
ensure continued compliance with
this Code;
(d) Initiating and receiving complaints of non-compliance with this
Code;
(e) Investigating complaints pertaining to non-compliance with this
Code and recommending appropriate
sanctions; and
(f) Implementing the hearing procedures provided in Sections 187.14
and 187.15.

The City Record
Section 187.03 Goals of Contracting Departments
(a) In accordance with the City’s
goal of increasing the level of small
business participation in City contracts, each contracting department
shall use its best efforts to utilize
certified SBEs as contractors and
subcontractors for all contracts in
excess
of
ten
thousand
dollars
($10,000). The annual City-wide goal
for SBE participation in City contracts shall be thirty percent (30%),
provided however, that the goal for
a particular contract may exceed the
goal in order to assist a contracting
department in meeting its annual
City-wide goal for all contracts.
(b) In consultation with the Director, contracting departments shall
consider
utilization
of
certified
SBEs when recommending a bid as
lowest and best or lowest responsible or a proposal as best in order to
meet the specified annual goal,
including use of a preference of no
more than five percent (5%) for the
bid of any prime bidder which is a
SBE or VSB and an adjustment factor for utilization of SBE and VSB
subcontractors. However, this goal
is not intended to be a quota. It
shall be the responsibility of each
contracting department to ensure
that invitations to bid or requests
for proposal emanating from that
department adhere to the procedures
and provisions set forth in this chapter.
(c) SBE participation shall be
counted toward meeting SBE goals
in accordance with the following
provisions:
(1) Only expenditures to certified
SBEs that perform commercially
useful functions in the implementation or performance of a contract
may be counted toward meeting
SBE goals. A SBE is considered to
perform a commercially useful function when it is responsible for executing a distinct element of the
work in carrying out its responsibilities by actually performing, managing, and supervising the work
involved. To determine whether a
SBE is performing a commercially
useful function, the City will evaluate the amount of the contractor’s
work which is subcontracted, industry practices, and other relevant factors;
(2) The entire amount of expenditure to a certified SBE manufacturer (i.e. a supplier that produces
goods from raw materials or substantially alters them before resale)
may be counted toward meeting the
SBE goal;
(3) Twenty percent (20%) of
expenditures to certified SBE suppliers that are not manufacturers
may be counted toward meeting the
SBE goal, provided that the SBE
supplier performs a commercially
useful
function
in
the
supply
process. A firm will be considered a
supplier performing a commercially
useful
function
in
the
supply
process when it:
A. assumes the actual and contractual responsibility for furnishing the supplies or materials;
B. is recognized as a distributor
by the industry involved in the contracted supplies and materials;
C. owns or leases a warehouse,
yard, building or other facilities for
stocking inventory or otherwise con-

2786

November 15, 2000
ducts business in a manner which is
usual and are customary in the market for such supplies or materials;
and
D. distributes, delivers, and services products primarily with its
own staff and/or equipment; and
(4) The amount of a SBE subcontract which a SBE subcontractor
intends to or does further subcontract to non-SBE(s) may not be
counted toward meeting SBE goals.
This provision does not apply to a
subcontractor’s contract(s) for the
purchase of materials, equipment, or
supplies which are incident to the
performance of services under the
contract or for the general operation
of its business and not attributable,
primarily and exclusively, to the
particular subcontract.
(d) In order to fulfill the purposes of the SBE goals, contractors utilizing SBEs shall use them in a way
which preserves the meaningful performance of the work or other contract obligations by the SBE. Failure to do so may subject the contractor
to
criminal
prosecution,
decertification, and other sanctions.
(e)
Notwithstanding
the
goal
established in division (a) of this
section, the Council may increase or
decrease the percentage goal in any
legislation considered by said body.
Section 187.04 Contracts with Very
Small Businesses
In furtherance of the efforts by
the contracting departments to support small business participation in
City contracts, a contracting department, in consultation with the Director, may solicit bids or proposals for
a contract from only VSBs, provided
that:
(a) The anticipated dollar value
of the contract does not exceed fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000);
(b) The Director can provide the
contracting department with a list
of certified VSBs which can be
solicited to submit bids or proposals
for the contract;
(c) There is a reasonable expectation of obtaining offers from two
or more responsible VSBs that are
competitive in terms of market
prices, quality and delivery; and
(d) If the contracting department
receives only one acceptable offer
from a responsible VSB concern in
response to a VSB set-aside, the
department should make an award
to that firm. If the contracting
department receives no acceptable
offers from responsible VSB concerns, the department will withdraw
the procurement and, if still valid,
must re-solicit it pursuant to Section
187.05.
Section 187.05 Good Faith Effort of
Bidders and Contract Provisions
(a) Each bidder shall make a
good faith effort to subcontract to
certified SBEs.
(b) Except for contracts solicited
in accordance with Section 187.04,
contracts for a dollar amount in
excess
of
ten
thousand
dollars
($10,000) shall be awarded and
administered in accordance with the
following standards and procedures:
(1) Bid invitations, requests for
proposals and all other specifications for contracts shall require
each bidder to include in its bid or
proposal such documentation and
schedules as specified by the Director in which the bidder identifies its

November 15, 2000
efforts to utilize SBEs in a percentage that equals or exceeds the
applicable goal. All bidders shall
keep such records of such efforts
adequate to permit a determination
of compliance with the requirements
of this section as are required by
the Director.
(2) If the bid invitation or request
for proposal contains alternates, the
percentage of SBE participation will
be computed with reference to the
total dollar amount of the award,
including the cost of alternates the
contracting department recommends
for award.
(3) It is the responsibility of each
bidder to ensure, prior to the bid
opening, that the City has certified
all SBEs it proposes to utilize as
subcontractors in the performance
of the contract sought.
(4) If a bidder is unable to
achieve the goal for SBE utilization
for a particular contract, the bidder
may submit a request for exception
pursuant to division (a) of Section
187.09.
(5) Prior to execution of a contract, a bidder shall submit to the
City such contract documents as the
Director specifies which shall identify the particular SBEs and other
subcontractors to be utilized in performing the contract, and shall specify for each subcontractor the dollar
and percentage value of the participation, the type of work to be performed and such information as may
reasonably be required to determine
whether the SBE participation goal
has been met.
(c) All contracts shall contain the
following requirements:
(1) The contractor shall utilize
certified SBEs in the performance of
the contract in accordance with the
participation identified in its bid or
proposal, subject only to any substitution and waiver granted pursuant to division (b) of Section
187.09.
(2) The contractor shall make a
good faith effort to increase utilization of SBEs during performance of
the contract.
(3) The contractor shall maintain
such records as are required by the
Director to demonstrate compliance
with this chapter and the requirements of the contract relating to
SBE participation.
(4) The provisions of this chapter
shall be incorporated into the contract by reference and any failure
of the contractor or any subcontractor to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall constitute a material breach of the contract.
(5) Whenever a contract is amended or any change order or subsidiary is authorized and the total
dollar amount of the contract is
increased by more than ten (10) percent of the dollar value of the original contract, the contractor shall
comply with the provisions of this
chapter with respect to the work to
be paid for through such amendment, change order or subsidiary
and ensure that the same percentage of SBE participation set forth in
the contractor’s bid or proposal is
maintained in the performance of
the additional work.
(d) In order to be considered lowest and best or lowest responsible,
a bidder shall disclose with its bid
or proposal such information as
required by the Director to demonstrate the extent to which, in con-

The City Record
tracts not within the purview of this
chapter, the bidder has awarded subcontracts to SBEs.
Section 187.06 Contracts with Other
Governmental Entities
Where, under contracts or other
agreements between the City and
other political subdivisions, or other
governmental or quasi-governmental
agencies,
such
entities
receive
money,
resources,
and
benefits
including rights or privileges from
or through the City, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of contracting with businesses to perform or
carry forward any work or project
or public purpose, all such entities
shall comply with the provisions of
this chapter in the award, administration, and implementation of such
contracts, as applicable.
Section 187.07 SBE and VSB Joint
Venture
Participation of SBEs and VSBs in
joint ventures with other SBEs and
VSBs is encouraged. In the case of
a certified joint venture, the value
of the contract equal to the percentage of participation of the small
or very small partner(s) in the joint
venture will be counted toward the
applicable goal.
Section 187.08 Responsibilities of
Contracting Departments
The Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies and each contracting
department hereby are directed to:
(a) Make every effort to increase
the level of participation of SBEs in
contracts of ten thousand dollars
($10,000) or less;
(b) Develop lists of SBEs and
VSBs experienced in the various
types of services, products or property typically contracted for;
(c) Provide quarterly reports to
the Director not later than thirty
(30) calendar days after the end of
the previous quarterly period specifying with respect to contracts and
subcontracts:
(1) For the forthcoming quarter,
the means by which it intends to
meet the goal established by this
section;
(2) The dollar percentage and dollar amount of those contracts and
subcontracts awarded in the previous quarter to SBEs and VSBs;
(3) For each contracting department, the degree to which the goal
set forth in this section have been
met, any past and current activities
undertaken and being undertaken in
trying to meet such goal and, if
applicable, a detailed explanation of
why the goal has not been met; and
(4) Such other information as may
be requested by the Director; and
(d) Appoint a member of the contracting department or division to
serve as a liaison between the contracting department and the Office
of Equal Opportunity, and to nominate a member of the contracting
department or division to serve on
the Committee established pursuant
to Section 187.18.
Section 187.09 Exceptions, Substitutions and Waivers
(a) If a bidder is unable to meet
the goal for a contract in accordance with division (a) of Section
187.03, such bidder may submit a
request for exception prior to the
bid opening. The request for exception shall include such documenta-

2787

7
tion the Director specifies which
demonstrates the bidder’s good faith
effort to utilize SBEs to achieve the
goal established in division (a) of
Section 187.03.
(b) If, after award of a contract,
the contractor is unable to utilize a
certified SBE identified in the contractor’s bid, the contractor shall
seek and propose a substitute certified SBE to fulfill its utilization
commitment, for approval of the
Director. If, after reasonable good
faith
efforts,
the
contractor
is
unable to find a substitute, the contractor may request a waiver of the
contract obligation from the Director. The request must document both
the contractor’s good faith efforts to
find a substitute and the reasons for
its inability to meet the goal.
(c) A contracting department may
request the Director to waive or
reduce the goal for SBE participation in a particular contract by submitting the reasons therefor in writing prior to solicitation of bids or
proposals.
(1) The Director may grant such
a waiver or reduction upon determination that:
A. The reasonable and necessary
requirements of the contract rendered subcontracting or participation of businesses other than the
bidder or proposer infeasible; or
B. Based upon documentation submitted to the Director, sufficient
qualified SBEs capable of providing
the goods or services required by
the contract are unavailable in the
contracting market despite every
feasible attempt to locate them.
(2) Any reduction in a goal granted by the Director shall specify the
percentage to which the goal has
been reduced.
(d) A contracting department may
waive or reduce the goal established
in division (a) of Section 187.03 for
a particular contract under the following circumstances:
(1) Whenever the director of a
contracting department finds, with
the advice of the Director, that the
goods or services are available only
from a sole source, and the prospective contractor is not currently disqualified from doing business with
the City.
(2) If the director of a contracting department certifies in writing
to the Director:
A. That an emergency exists
which requires goods or services to
be provided with such immediacy
that it is unfeasible to comply with
the requirements of this chapter;
and
B. That the prospective contractor
is a SBE, or if not, that the prospective contractor will make every
good faith effort to subcontract to
SBEs should subcontracting opportunities exist.
Section 187.10 Employment; Nondiscrimination; Goals of Contractors
(a) No contractor shall discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of
race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era
or disabled veteran status. Contractors shall take affirmative action to
insure that applicants are employed
and that employees are treated during employment without regard to
race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, dis-

8
ability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era
or disabled veteran status. As used
herein, “treated” means and includes
without limitation the following:
recruited whether by advertising or
other means; compensated, whether
in the form of rates of pay or other
forms of compensation; selected for
training, including apprenticeship,
promoted, upgraded, demoted, transferred, laid off and terminated. Contractors shall post in conspicuous
places available to employees and
applicants for employment, notices
to be provided by the hiring representative
of
contractors
setting
forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.
(b) Goals, as established by the
Director, shall be used to encourage
affirmative action by all parties
who participate in contracts with
the City. All contractors and subcontractors shall use their best
efforts to attain such goals in accordance with the criteria herein specified. However, the goals shall not
be construed as quotas.
Section 187.11 Compliance with
Employment Goals
(a) A contractor shall qualify for
a certificate of employment compliance when the Administrator, from
the required submittals and other
information supplied by the contractor, determines that the goals
established
pursuant
to
Section
187.10 of this Code have been met
and that the contractor is otherwise
complying with this Code and its
regulations.
(b) A contractor that has not met
the goals established pursuant to
division (b) of Section 187.10 may
be deemed by the Administrator to
be in compliance with this Code if
the required submittals and other
information supplied by the contractor assure the Administrator
that the contractor is ensuring
equal employment opportunities by
taking
specified
affirmative
actions, with regard to its employees,
facilities and performance of the
contract. In making the determination under division (b) of this section, the Administrator may require
the contractor to submit and implement a written affirmative action
plan containing such terms as the
Administrator may require. When
the Administrator is satisfied that
the contractor has complied with
the Code, its regulations and with
this subsection, the Administrator
shall issue a written “statement of
deemed compliance.”
(c) By notice in writing to the
Director and the Clerk of Council,
the Mayor may waive compliance
with the employment goals set forth
in Section 187.10 with respect to a
specific
contractor
seeking
the
award of a specific contract when,
in the Mayor’s sole judgment, such
action is necessary to preserve the
health, welfare and public safety.
Section 187.12 Certification as a
Contract Prerequisite
(a) All contractors with the City
must hold:
(1) A valid certificate of employment compliance or a statement of
deemed compliance under division
(a)(1) of Section 187.13, unless the
Mayor has waived such compliance;
and
(2) A certificate of general compliance with this Code under division (a)(4) of Section 187.14.

The City Record
(b) In order to retain a certificate
of
compliance,
each
contractor
whose bid includes participation by
SBEs must demonstrate that it:
(1) Has reached a specific agreement with each participating SBE
subcontractor;
(2) Has accurately and fully represented the essence of their agreement in the bid documents; and
(3) Is using SBEs in a way which
is complies with this Code and its
regulations.
If the Administrator has made a
finding of noncompliance under division (c)(3) of Section 187.13, then
the City may reject the bid until
such proceedings are resolved.
(c) SBEs must be certified under
divisions (a)(2) and (a)(4) of Section 187.13. Contractors seeking to
use certified SBEs shall ensure that
all forms and related materials
required for certification are submitted to the Director in a timely
fashion.
(d) Certificates issued by the
Administrator pursuant to divisions
(a)(1) through (a)(4) of Section
187.13 shall be valid for two (2)
years or such shorter period specified in the regulations.
(e) If the Administrator finds that
a contractor is not in compliance
with the applicable provisions of
this Code or is in default with
respect to any representation made
by the contractor regarding applicable provisions of this Code and upon
which a certificate was awarded,
then the relevant certificate may be
withdrawn prior to its expiration.
All certificates must be renewed on
forms provided by the Office of
Equal Opportunity.
(f) The Administrator shall monitor compliance with the requirements of this chapter during the
terms of the contract. If the Administrator determines that there is
cause to believe that cause to
believe that a contractor or a subcontractor has failed to comply with
any of the requirements of this
chapter, or the contract provisions
pertaining to SBE participation, the
Administrator shall notify the contractor in accordance with the provisions of division (c) of Section
187.13. The provisions of divisions
(c), (d) and (e) of Section 187.13,
Section 187.14 and 187.15 shall be
applicable for the review and appeal
of this determination by the Administrator.
(g) The Director and the Administrator may require such reports,
information and documentation from
contractors, bidders, contractors, bidders, contracting departments, and
the head of any department division
or office of the City, as reasonably
necessary to determine compliance
with requirements of the chapter
and any contract provisions regarding SBE and VSB participation.
(h) Contracting departments shall
maintain accurate records for each
contract awarded, including dollar
value, the nature of the goods and
services to be provided, the name of
the contractor awarded the contract,
the efforts employed to solicit bids
from SBEs and VSBs, and all subcontracts awarded by the contractor,
including dollar value, the nature of
the goods or services provided, and
the name of the subcontractor.
(i) On or before the fifteenth day
of the month following the completion of each quarter, the Director
shall publish in the City Record a

2788

November 15, 2000
list of all SBEs and VSBs certified
by the Administrator during the preceding quarter, including identification of the type of work that each
performs and a list of any business
enterprise that has lost its certification as a SBE or VSB for purposes of this chapter during the preceding quarter, including whether
an appeal of this determination is
pending. On or before the fifteenth
day of the month following the completion of each quarter, the Director
shall furnish each member of Council with a list of any business enterprise which has been denied certification as a SBE or VSB for purposes of this chapter during the preceding quarter, including whether
the an appeal of this determination
is pending. The printing of the
name of a certified SBE or VSB in
the City Record pursuant to this
division shall not be a prerequisite
for eligibility for the award of a
City contract.
Section 187.13 Certification Process
(a) Under the direction of and
upon authorization from the Director, the Administrator may issue or
deny certificates of compliance or,
in the case of equal employment as
described in division (a)(1) of this
section, statements of deemed compliance to contractors with respect
to the following areas:
(1) Equal employment of minorities and women in the contractor’s
workforce, as described in division
(b) of Section 187.10;
(2) Bona fide status as SBEs or
VSBs;
(3) Bona fide status as SBE and
VSB joint ventures pursuant to Section 187.07; and
(4) Compliance with this Code and
its regulations.
Any certification with regard to
professional service contracts entered into by the Director of Law
may be deferred at the discretion of
the Director of Law, but shall occur
prior to final payment under the
contract.
(b) Any person having knowledge
of facts tending to show that a contractor has obtained or is seeking
certifications by false or inaccurate
representations to the Office of
Equal Opportunity may initiate the
administrative procedures set forth
in this section and in Sections 187.14
and 187.15. For purposes of these
sections all contractors are responsible for maintaining their current
addresses and those of their subcontractors with the Administrator;
upon mailing by certified mail of
any notice to such filed address, the
required notice shall be complete.
(c) If the Administrator has reason to believe that as contractor is
in default with respect to any representation by the contractor regarding applicable provisions of this
Code and its regulations, and upon
which a certification or contract
was
awarded
the
Administrator
shall:
(1) Send the contractor written
notice by certified mail or personal
delivery of any apparent noncompliance with applicable terms of the
Code;
(2) Give the contractor forty-eight
(48) hours from receipt of the
notice, or other specified reasonable
opportunity to submit records or
offer other information in support of
its continued certification and compliance with the provisions of the

November 15, 2000
Code. Failure of the contractor to
submit records or other information
promptly as requested by the Administrator may be deemed by the
Administrator to be agreement by
the contractor to the conditions and
circumstances of the noncompliance
addressed in the Administrator’s
notice to the contractor; and
(3) If the Administrator, after
reviewing the information submitted
under division (c)(2) of this section
determines that the contractor is not
in compliance with the Code, then
he shall issue a written finding of
noncompliance or default under the
Code, stating the basis for that finding and giving notice to the contractor of the right to object to the
finding.
(d) Any contractor taking exception to a finding of the Administrator may attempt to reconcile the differences through informal methods
of
conciliation
and
persuasion
and/or file a written objection, with
reasons for the objection, with the
Administrator
by
certified
mail
within five days of mailing of the
Administrator’s written finding. The
Administrator may enter into a settlement agreement regarding the
finding. If a written objection is
filed, the Administrator shall forward the objection to the Director,
within five days of its receipt along
with all materials relating to the
determination, from which is being
appealed, together with any recommendations of appropriate remedial
action to be taken. The provisions
of Section 187.14 will then apply.
(e) If the Administrator finds a
contractor is in default under this
Code, and if no reconciliation is
attempted by the contractor within
five days of mailing of the written
finding,
the
Administrator
shall
forthwith forward his findings to
the Director along with a recommendation of appropriate remedial
action to be taken or sanctions to
be imposed. The Director shall then
make a decision as to whether or
not a status of noncompliance exists
based solely on the findings of the
Administrator and shall take such
of the actions set out in division (a)
of Section 187.08 as are applicable
and consistent with his determination.
Section 187.14 Hearing Procedure
If the contractor files a timely
objection, as provided in division
(d) of Section 187.13, to a written
finding by the Administrator, the
Director shall hold a hearing on the
matter of the objection. The hearing
shall be held not less than five days
nor more than ten days from the filing,
unless
otherwise
mutually
agreed to by the contractor and the
Director. Notice of the date, time
and place for hearing shall be sent
by certified mail to all interested
parties by the Director. Counsel for
the
Administrator
or
contractor
hereby are empowered to issue subpoenas for the presentation of evidence. The contractor shall have the
right to record the proceedings of
the hearing at the sole expense of
the contractor.
Section 187.15 Decision and Available Sanctions for Noncompliance
(a) Within five days after the
hearing required by Section 187.14,
the Director shall issue and send by
certified mail to the contractor, findings of fact and a determination of

The City Record
compliance or noncompliance with
the Code. If the Director determines
that the contractor is in compliance
with the applicable provisions of the
Code, he shall issue an appropriate
certificate. If the Director determines that the contractor is in
default with respect to any representation by the contractor upon
which a certificate or contract was
awarded or that the contractor is
not in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Code and its
regulations, the Director, in addition
to whatever other remedies may be
available with respect to the foregoing and other defaults under any
contract in question, may:
(1) Cancel any existing certificate
or statement of deemed compliance
or withhold issuance of a certificate
or statement of deemed compliance
until
the
contractor
cures
the
default or is in full compliance with
the applicable provisions of the
Code; or
(2) Recommend that the City
withhold all or part of any payments due such contractor until
such time as the contractor cures
the default or is in full compliance
with the applicable provisions of the
Code; or
(3) Recommend that the City cancel the contract and declare a forfeiture of any performance bond; or
(4) Recommend that the Director
of Law take such legal action,
whether civil or criminal, as he
deems appropriate; or
(5) Recommend rescission of the
contract based upon a material
breach of the contract pertaining to
SBE or VSB participation; or
(6) Recommend disqualification of
a bidder, contractor, or other business from eligibility for providing
goods or services to the City for a
period not to exceed two (2) years;
or
(7) Recommend payment of damages, including any liquidated damages specified in the contract.
(b) The decision of the Director is
final and may be appealed to the
Board of Zoning Appeals, whose
decision, in turn, may be reviewed
by the Common Pleas Court pursuant to RC Chapter 2506, or as otherwise provided by law.
Section
187.16
Negotiated
Contracts; Notice Required in Advertisement for Bids
Where
invitations
to
bid
are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the Cleveland
Small Business Code, each small
business enterprise (“SBE”) must be
certified before doing business with
the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
utilizing a SBE shall submit applications for certification as to SBE
status, compliance with the Code,
affirmative action in employment
and, if applicable, joint venture status, to the City’s Office of Equal
Opportunity prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by regulations. Failure to comply with the Cleveland
Small Business Code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
Section 187.17 Equal Opportunity
Clause; Terms in Contracts
(a) Contracting departments are
hereby directed to include the notice

2789

9
set forth in Section 187.16 and the
requirements set forth in division
(c) of Section 187.05 in all specifications for contracts. The satisfaction of the duties and agreements
set forth in that clause shall be considered by the Director in determining whether a contractor is in compliance with this Code.
(b) Each contract also shall contain the following equal opportunity clause:
“During the performance of this
contract, the contractor agrees as
follows:
(1) The contractor shall not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of
race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era
or disabled veteran status. The contractor shall take affirmative action
to
insure
that
applicants
are
employed and that employees are
treated during employment without
regard to race, religion, color, sex,
sexual orientation, national origin,
age, disability, ethnic group, or Vietnam-era or disabled veteran status.
As used herein, “treated” means and
includes without limitation the following: recruited, whether by advertising or other means; compensated,
whether in the form of rates of pay
or other forms of compensation;
selected
for
training,
including
apprenticeship, promoted, upgraded,
demoted, downgraded, transferred,
laid off and terminated. The contractor agrees to and shall post in
conspicuous
places,
available
to
employees
and
applicants
for
employment, notices to be provided
by the hiring representatives of the
contractor setting forth the provisions
of
this
nondiscrimination
clause.
(2) The contractor will, in all
solicitations or advertisements for
employees placed by or on behalf of
the contractor, state that the contractor is an equal opportunity
employer.
(3) The contractor shall send to
each labor union or representative
of workers with which he has a collective bargaining agreement or
other contract, or understanding, a
notice advising the labor union or
worker’s representative of the contractor’s commitments under the
equal opportunity clause, and shall
post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees
and applicants for employment.
(4) It is the policy of the City that
small business concerns shall have
every practicable opportunity to participate in the performance of contracts awarded by the City.
(5) The contractor shall permit
access by the Director or his or her
designated representative to any relevant and pertinent reports and documents to verify compliance with
the Cleveland Small Business Code,
and with the regulations of the
Office of Equal Opportunity. All
such
materials
provided
to
the
Director or his designated representative by the contractor shall be considered confidential.
(6) The contractor will not obstruct or hinder the Director or his
designated representative in the fulfillment of the duties and responsibilities imposed by the Cleveland
Small Business Code.
(7) The contractor agrees that
each subcontract will include this
Equal Opportunity Clause, and the

10
contractor will notify each subcontractor, materialman and supplier
that the subcontractor must agree to
comply with and be subject to all
applicable provisions of the Cleveland Small Business Code. The contractor shall take any appropriate
action with respect to any subcontractor as a means of enforcing the
provisions of the Code.”
Section 187.18 Review and Evaluation Committee
The Director shall serve as chairman of a Review and Evaluation
Committee comprised of at least one
member
from
each
contracting
department and one business enterprise liaison from the Division of
Purchases and Supplies. Such members may be appointed by the Mayor
from among nominees presented to
him by the contracting departments
and serve at the discretion of the
Mayor. The Committee shall meet as
is necessary to fulfill the following
responsibilities.
(a) Review and monitor each contracting department’s SBE and VSB
program.
(b) Assist the Director in preparing annual reports to the Mayor on
the progress of the City’s SBE and
VSB programs.
(c) Recommend changes in the
regulations promulgated under this
Code.
(d) Assist, as appropriate, in the
implementation of this Code.
(e) Prepare, review and make recommendations concerning the directory of certified SBEs and VSBs.
(f) Assist in preparing a business
enterprise quarterly awards report.
(g) Carry out such other oversight
or coordination functions as may be
requested by the Director.
Section 187.19 Reports
(a) If a construction contract is
estimated to take more than ninety
(90) days to complete or calls for
the City to expend five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000) or more,
each contractor and subcontractor
shall submit project site reports to
the Administrator which shall contain such information as the Administrator may require. Reports shall
be submitted as requested by the
Administrator, but at least every
ninety (90) days.
(b) Failure to submit any required report may result in imposition of any of the sanctions listed
in Section 187.15.
Section 187.20 Violations; Disqualification
(a) No person shall:
(1) Willfully obstruct, impede or
attempt to obstruct or impede any
authorized official or employee who
is investigating the qualifications of
a
business
entity
which
has
requested certification as a SBE or
a VSB.
(2) Fraudulently obtain, retain,
attempt to obtain or retain, or aid
another in fraudulently obtaining or
retaining or attempting to obtain or
retain certification as a SBE or a
VSB for purposes of this chapter.
(3) Make false statements to any
entity that any other is or is not certified as a SBE or a VSB for purposes of this chapter.
(4) Willfully falsify, conceal or
cover up by a trick, scheme or
device a material fact, or make any
false, fictitious or fraudulent statements or representations or make

The City Record
use of any false writing or document knowing the same to contain
any false, fictitious or fraudulent
statement or entry in any matter
administered pursuant to this chapter.
(5) Fraudulently obtain, attempt
to obtain, or aid another person
fraudulently obtaining or attempting to obtain, public monies to
which the person is not entitled
under this chapter.
(b) Any person who violates the
provisions of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and upon conviction is subject to
imprisonment for a period of not
more than six (6) months or a fine
of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), or both.
Section 187.21 Severability
Each section and each part of
each section of this Cleveland Small
Business Code is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of
a section, and notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent,
it is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any
such section or part of a section or
any provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held to be invalid,
the remaining sections or parts of
sections and the application of such
provision to any other person or circumstances, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected
thereby.
It
is
further
declared to be the legislative intent
that the other provisions of this
Code would have been adopted independently of such section or parts of
a section which are held to be
invalid
Section 187.22 Duration
This Cleveland Small Business
Code is enacted as a temporary measure to attempt to alleviate the barriers facing small businesses in the
City of Cleveland and benefit and
strengthen the City of Cleveland’s
ties with firms located within its
contracting market. This Code shall
remain in full force and effect, subject to periodic review by the Council of the City of Cleveland. The
Council shall regularly, but at a
minimum once every two (2) years,
determine whether there is a continuing need for a Cleveland Small
Business Program, make relevant
findings in support of that determination, and, if necessary, amend this
chapter as appropriate.
Section 5. That new Sections 187.01
through 187.22 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
shall take effect on October 1, 2000.
Section 6. That, notwithstanding
any other provision of this ordinance to the contrary and in furtherance of an orderly transition
from the Minority Business and
Female Business Enterprise Code to
The Cleveland Small Business Code,
any business enterprise located and
doing business in Cuyahoga County
which is certified as an MBE or
FBE for purposes of the Minority
Business
and
Female
Business
Enterprise Code as of the effective
date of The Cleveland Small Business Code shall be deemed to be a
SBE for purposes of The Cleveland
Small Business Code until such time
as an application of the business
enterprise for certification as a SBE
is granted or denied by the Director
of the Office of Equal Opportunity

2790

November 15, 2000
or for a period of eighteen (18)
months following the effective date
of The Cleveland Small Business
Code, whichever shall occur first.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2015-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of demolishing,
relocating and constructing certain
NASA facilities in order to permit
the construction of Runway 5L/23R;
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into contracts for
the making of such improvement;
authorizing contracts for the purchase of supplies, materials, equipment and other items required to
make the improvement, including
rental, labor and installation, if necessary; authorizing said Director to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations as necessary
to make the public improvement;
and authorizing the Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies
to
acquire such interests in real property as are necessary to make the
public improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of demolishing, relocating and
constructing certain NASA facilities
in order to permit the construction
of Runway 5L/23R (“Improvement”).
Section 2. The Director of Port
Control is hereby authorized to
enter into contracts for the making
of the Improvement, by contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidders, after competitive bidding
for a gross price, with the exception
of roadwork, earthwork and utility
work performed in conjunction with
the Improvement, which shall be
competitively bid on a unit price
basis provided, however, that each
separate trade and each distinct
component part of the Improvement
may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of such trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of said Director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make written standard purchase
contracts and written requirements
contracts in accordance with the
Charter and Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the period of
such requirements not to exceed two

November 15, 2000
years, for each and all of the necessary items of supplies, material,
equipment and other items required
to make the Improvement, including
the rental of such items, and labor
and materials to install and maintain any and all of the foregoing
items, to be purchased or procured
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in
such a manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provision
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized
to purchase, lease or otherwise
acquire easements, fee interests,
licenses, permits, mitigation credits,
and other rights or interests in real
property directly necessary for the
Improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
execute on behalf of the City of
Cleveland all necessary documents
to acquire said rights or interests in
real property directly necessary for
the Improvement and to employ title
companies,
surveyors,
escrow
agents, appraisers, environmental
consultants, and field service consultants necessary for the acquisition or use of the rights or interests
in real property authorized by Section 4 hereof.
Section 6. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into agreements with the holders of said rights or interests in real
property to relocate or to otherwise
modify existing buildings, equipment, fixtures or other features of
said property and to pay or reimburse related costs to permit the
making of the Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into agreements with federal,
state, and local governmental or regulatory entities or other public
authorities necessary and to pay or
reimburse
directly
related
costs
incurred by such entities for the
purpose of making the Improvement.
Section 8. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
apply for and pay for such permits
and licenses required by any regulatory entity or other public authority for making of the Improvement.
Section 9. That the cost of any
requirement contracts entered into
pursuant to this ordinance shall be
charged against the proper account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon, which purchase,
together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 10. That, as a condition
precedent to entering into any contracts or agreements contemplated
to
make
the
Improvement,
the
Department of Port Control shall be
in receipt of all necessary federal
approvals, including the Record of
Decision
for
the
Environmental

The City Record
Impact Statement, and other such
regulatory approvals as may be
required.
Section 11. That the Director of
Port Control shall file a copy of all
contracts, permits, licenses or agreements entered into by the City as
authorized by this ordinance with
the Clerk of Council, the President
of Council, the Chairman of the Aviation and Transportation Committee
and the Chairman of the Finance
Committee within five (5) business
days of execution by the City.
Section 12. That the cost of any
expenditures
authorized
by
this
ordinance for any contract, including all public improvements, standard purchases, requirements contracts
and
property
acquisition,
shall not exceed a total amount of
$86,908,692.00 and shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60
SF 105, 60 SF 106, passenger facility charges and the fund and/or subfunds to which are credited the proceeds of any general airport revenue
bonds, federal grants, state grants,
and local grants issued for the purpose of the Improvement authorized
herein.
In
the
event
that
the
Improvement exceeds or is anticipated to exceed the amount specified for each project component listed herein, the Director of Port Control shall notify the President of
Council, the Chairman of the Aviation and Transportation Committee,
and the Chairman of the Finance
Committee of the need for a subsidiary agreement in accordance
with Section 185.44 of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, and shall immediately
proceed to secure the necessary legislative approval from Cleveland
City Council. (RL 8297)
Section 13. That, in accordance
with federal law and to the extent
permitted by federal law, all construction contracts entered into pursuant to this ordinance shall establish a goal of hiring at least thirty
percent (30%) MBE, ten percent
(10%)
FBE,
twenty-five
percent
(25%) minority workforce, seven
and one-half percent (7.5%) female
workforce and forty percent (40%)
City residents. In seeking to obtain
such goal, all contractors shall utilize best efforts.
Section 14. That the Director of
Port Control shall provide detailed
bimonthly written reports to the
President of Council, the Chairman
of the Aviation and Transportation
Committee, and the Chairman of the
Finance Committee of all expenditures made pursuant to this ordinance, including the source of funds
for such expenditures. The Director
of Port Control shall also provide to
the aforementioned Council representatives detailed bimonthly written reports of the MBE/FBE goals
and residency and workforce goals
set forth herein.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.

2791

11
Ord. No. 2016-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
execute an easement granting to
East Ohio Gas certain easement
rights in property located at the
West Hangar Road and declaring
said easement rights no longer needed for public use; proffering certain
representations for purposes of the
Trust Indenture from the City of
Cleveland to the Chase Manhattan
Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee and authorizing the Director of Port Control
to apply to the bond trustee for land
release.
Whereas,
East
Ohio
Gas
has
requested the Director of Port Control to convey easement rights in
property
located
at
the
West
Hangar Road; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that easement interests
in the following described property
are no longer needed for public use:
Easement to
East Ohio Gas Company
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Middleburg Township Lot
Nos. 5 and 6.
Starting at the intersection of the
centerline of Old Grayton Road,
60.00 feet wide and the centerline of
Brookpark Road, 100.00 feet wide as
shown by Airport Survey recorded in
Volume 246, Page 71-75 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Thence South 00° 13' 44" West
and perpendicular to said centerline
of Brookpark Road, 50.00 feet to a
point in the Southerly line of said
Brookpark Road;
Thence North 89° 46' 16" West
along said Southerly line, 1115.28
feet to a point in the Westerly line
of land conveyed to the City of
Cleveland Municipal Airport in deed
recorded in Volume 9037, Page 245
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence South 66° 59' 29" West
along the Westerly line of land so
conveyed, 485.11 feet to an angle
point therein;
Thence South 43° 39' 20" West
along said Westerly line of land so
conveyed 199.99 feet to the Principal
Place of Beginning of the easement
herein intended to be described;
Thence South 42° 54' 13" East,
40.72 feet;
Thence South 48° 05' 10" West,
118.77 feet;
Thence South 49° 23' 43" West,
37.50 feet;
Thence South 44° 35' 12" West,
30.75 feet;
Thence South 41° 20' 16" West,
13.72 feet;
Thence South 36° 49' 45" West,
347.69 feet;
Thence South 27° 36' 50" West,
32.64 feet;

12
Thence South 69° 41' 36" East,
15.75 feet;
Thence North 22° 09' 21" East,
2.50 feet;
Thence South 67° 50' 39" East,
10.00 feet;
Thence South 22° 09' 21" West,
10.00 feet;
Thence North 67° 50' 39" West,
10.00 feet;
Thence North 22° 09' 21" East,
2.50 feet;
Thence North 69° 41' 36" West,
16.23 feet;
Thence South 27° 36' 50" West,
154.82 feet;
Thence South 37° 58' 00" West,
564.88 feet;
Thence North 52° 02' 00" West,
5.00 feet;
Thence North 37° 58' 00" East,
564.43 feet;
Thence North 27° 36' 50" East,
192.45 feet;
Thence North 36° 49' 45" East,
348.29 feet;
Thence North 41° 20' 16" East,
14.06 feet;
Thence North 44° 35' 12" East,
31.10 feet;
Thence North 49° 23' 43" East,
37.65 feet;
Thence North 48° 05' 10" East,
113.63 feet;
Thence North 42° 54' 13" West,
35.34 feet to a point in said Westerly line of land so conveyed;
Thence North 43° 39' 20" East
along said Westerly line, 5.01 feet to
the Principal Place of Beginning
and containing 0.1581 acres of land
as described on September 27, 2000
by R.M. Kole & Assoc., Inc., Professional Land Surveyors.
Section 2. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to construct
and maintain a gas line in connection with the West Hangar Road
project.
Section 3. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described, non-exclusive, easement interests to East Ohio Gas at
a price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be determined by the
Board of Control; that the easement
shall include reasonable right of
entry rights to the City; that the
easement shall be assignable only
upon the prior approval of the Board
of Control; that the easement shall
require the grantee to indemnify the
City, provide reasonable insurance,
maintain any grantee improvements
located within the easement, and
pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
shall be made by Official Deed of
Easement prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Director of Port Control on behalf of the
City of Cleveland.
The Deed of
Easement shall contain such additional terms and conditions as are
required to protect the interests of
the parties.
The Directors of Port
Control and Law are authorized to
execute
such
other
documents,
including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as may be
necessary to effect the construction
of a gas line in connection with the
West Hangar Road project.

The City Record
Section 6. That the City acknowledges, states and affirms, pursuant
to Article IX of the Trust Indenture
from the City of Cleveland to the
Chase Manhattan Trust Company,
National Association, as successor
trustee, dated November 1, 1976, as
amended (the “Indenture”), that the
City desires and requests that certain portions of its land heretofore
subject to the Indenture be released
and removed from all obligations
under said Indenture. Further, the
City
acknowledges,
states
and
affirms that it is not in default
under said Indenture; that release of
such land is necessary in order to
serve the public purpose of providing public utilities; and that certain
public improvements will be constructed on the land to be released,
including public utilities.
Section 7. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to apply
to the Chase Manhattan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee, for release of the
land described in Section 1, pursuant
to the Indenture.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Public Utilities, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation,
Public
Utilities,
City
Planning
Finance.
Ord. No. 2017-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the FAA TRACON and necessary
project components; authorizing the
Director of Port Control to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvement; authorizing contracts
for the purchase of supplies, material, equipment and other items
required to make the improvement,
including rental, labor and installation, if necessary; authorizing such
other agreements as are necessary;
and authorizing said Director to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations as necessary
to make the public improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing the FAA TRACON and its necessary appurtenances (“Improvement”).
Section 2. The Director of Port
Control is hereby authorized to
enter into contracts for the making
of the Improvement, by contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidders, after competitive bidding
for a gross price, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or

2792

November 15, 2000
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of said Director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make written standard purchase
contracts and written requirement
contracts in accordance with the
Charter and Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the period of
such requirements not to exceed two
years, for each and all of the necessary items of supplies, material,
equipment and other items required
to make the Improvement, including
the rental of such items, and labor
and materials to install and maintain any and all of the foregoing
items, to be purchased or procured
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in
such a manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine.
Section 4. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into agreements with federal,
state, and local governmental or regulatory entities or other public
authorities necessary and to pay or
reimburse
directly
related
costs
incurred by such entities for the
purpose of making the Improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
apply for and pay for such permits
and licenses required by any regulatory entity or other public authority for making of the Improvement.
Section 6. That the cost of any
requirement contracts entered into
pursuant to this ordinance shall be
charged against the proper account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon, which purchase,
together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That, as a condition
precedent to entering into any contracts or agreements contemplated
to
make
the
Improvement,
the
Department of Port Control shall be
in receipt of all necessary federal
approvals, including the Record of
Decision
for
the
Environmental
Impact Statement, and other such
regulatory approvals as may be
required.
Section 8. That the Director of
Port Control shall file a copy of all
contracts,
permits,
licenses
or
agreements entered into by the City
as authorized by this ordinance
with the Clerk of Council, the President of Council, the Chairman of
the Aviation and Transportation
Committee and the Chairman of the
Finance Committee within five (5)
business days of execution by the
City.
Section 9. That the cost of any
expenditures
authorized
by
this
ordinance for any contract, including all public improvements, standard purchases and requirements

November 15, 2000
contracts, shall not exceed a total
amount of $3,802,104.00 and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60
SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, passenger facility charges and the fund
and/or subfunds to which are credited the proceeds of any general airport revenue bonds, federal grants,
state grants, and local grants issued
for the purpose of the Improvement
authorized herein. In the event that
the Improvement exceeds or is anticipated to exceed the amount specified for each project component listed herein, the Director of Port Control shall notify the President of
Council, the Chairman of the Aviation and Transportation Committee,
and the Chairman of the Finance
Committee of the need for a subsidiary agreement in accordance
with Section 185.44 of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, and shall immediately
proceed to secure the necessary legislative approval from Cleveland
City Council. (8295)
Section 10. That, in accordance
with federal law and to the extent
permitted by federal law, all construction contracts entered into pursuant to this ordinance shall establish a goal of hiring at least thirty
percent (30%) MBE, ten percent
(10%)
FBE,
twenty-five
percent
(25%) minority workforce, seven
and one-half percent (7.5%) female
workforce and forty percent (40%)
City residents. In seeking to obtain
such goal, all contractors shall utilize best efforts.
Section 11. That the Director of
Port Control shall provide detailed
bimonthly written reports to the
President of Council, the Chairman
of the Aviation and Transportation
Committee, and the Chairman of the
Finance Committee of all expenditures made pursuant to this ordinance, including the source of funds
for such expenditures. The Director
of Port Control shall also provide to
the aforementioned Council representatives detailed bimonthly written reports of the MBE/FBE goals
and residency and workforce goals
set forth herein.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2018-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron, Cimperman,
Melena
and
Patmon
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
1004-91, passed July 24, 1991, as
amended by Ordinance No. 324-97,
passed June 2, 1997, and to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 1004-97,
passed July 24, 1991, relating to consent of the City of Cleveland for participation in the repair and resurfacing of Rocky River Drive, thereto, to cause payment of Cleveland’s
share.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 1004-91, passed July
24, 1991, as amended by Ordinance
No. 324-97, passed June 2, 1997, are
hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 1. That it is declared to
be in the public interest that the
consent of the City be and such consent is hereby given to the Director
of Transportation of the State of
Ohio to participate in the design and
construction of the following improvement in accordance with plans,
specifications
and
estimates
approved by said Director: the design,
repair and resurfacing of Rocky
River Drive from Brookpark Road
to the northern corporation line at
Hogs Back Lane (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That, provided the City
of Cleveland sells the general obligation bonds authorized by Ordinance
No. 885-91, passed April 22, 1991, the
City hereby proposes to cooperate
with the State of Ohio in the design
and construction of the Improvement by assuming and contributing
the entire cost and expense of the
Improvement less the amount of
Federal-aid funds set aside by the
Director of Transportation for the
financing of the Improvement from
funds allocated by the Federal
Highway
Administration,
United
States Department of Transportation
and less the amount of State Highway Funds determined to be eligible and set aside for the Improvement. In addition, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the
construction contract, at the requirement of the City, which are determined by the Director not to be reliable or made necessary by the
Improvement.
Section 2. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 1004-91, passed July
24, 1991, as amended by Ordinance
No. 324-97, passed June 2, 1997, are
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 1004-91, passed July 24,
1991, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 4. That, provided the City
of Cleveland sells the general obligation bonds authorized by Ordinance
No. 885-91, passed April 22, 1991, the
Director of Public Service is hereby
authorized to cause payment to the
State of Ohio of the City’s share of
the cost of the Improvement from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 146, 20 SF 353, 20
SF 883, and also Fund No. 20 SF 190,
which is the fund to which will be
credited the proceeds of the sale of
general obligation bonds of the City
of Cleveland authorized by Ordinance No. 885-91, passed April 22,
1991, Request No. 14281 and 22509.
Section 4. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 1004-91, passed July 24,
1991, is hereby repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

2793

13
Ord. No. 2019-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain generators, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
repair and maintain generators in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding year, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service. Bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 17938)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 2020-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain various types of heavy duty construction
equipment, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

14
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
repair and maintain various types of
heavy duty construction equipment
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding year, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service. Bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 17937)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 2021-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of Ford tractor, mower and
construction equipment parts, including labor if necessary, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of Ford
tractor,
mower
and
construction
equipment parts, including labor if
necessary
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service. Bids

The City Record
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 17935)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 2022-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract
of
Cushman-Ransomes
equipment parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
Cushman-Ransomes equipment parts,
including labor if necessary in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding year, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department
of
Public Service. Bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which

2794

November 15, 2000
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 17936)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 2023-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of diesel fuel, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
diesel
fuel
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than a
year may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 17939)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

November 15, 2000
Ord. No. 2024-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1301-97,
passed August 13, 1997, relating to
the cause payment of the City of
Cleveland’s share to the County of
Cuyahoga and the State of Ohio for
the cost of rehabilitating and reconstructing West 53rd Street Bridge;
Denison Avenue Bridge, Harvard
Avenue Bridge, West 65th Street
Bridge and the West 74th Street
Bridge.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1301-97, passed August 13,
1997, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That this Council hereby authorizes payment to the State
of Ohio and the County of Cuyahoga
of the City’s share of the cost of
rehabilitating
and
reconstructing
West 53rd Street Bridge over N/S
and RTA, Denison Avenue Bridge
over Conrail and N/S, Harvard Avenue Bridge over Wheeling & Lake
Erie, West 65th Street Bridge over
N/S and RTA, and the West 74th
Street Bridge from Fund Nos. 20 SF
190, 20 SF 302, 20 SF 312, 20 SF 322,
20 SF 334, 20 SF 353, 20 SF 373, 52
SF 001, 58 SF 223 and from the fund
and subfunds to which are credited
the proceeds of the sale of the general obligation bonds authorized by
Ordinance No. 920-97, passed June 9,
1997, Request No. 21947.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1301-97, passed August 13,
1997, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 2025-2000.
By Councilmen Gordon, Polensek,
Rybka, Lewis and Patmon (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
various sections of Chapter 241 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, as amended and enacted
by various ordinances; to repeal Section 241.231 as amended by Ordinance No. 1587-90, passed December
17, 1990; to repeal Sections 243.01
through and including 243.17 of said
codified ordinances, as amended and
enacted by various ordinances and
to enact new Section 243.01; to supplement said codified ordinances by
enacting new Sections 241.041 and
241.051 thereof; and to repeal Sections 245.01 through and including
245.19 and to enact new Sections
245.01 to 245.12, all relating to licensing and sanitation of food shops.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 241.03 and 241.04, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 511-76,
passed June 14, 1976,
Section 241.05, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2015-95, passed December 18, 1995, and
Sections
241.09,
241.20,
241.21,
241.22, 241.26 and 241.27, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 511-76, passed June
14, 1976,
are hereby amended, to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 241.03 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
(a) “Food,” “drug,” “device,” “cosmetic,” “label,” “labeling,” “adulterated,” and “misbranded,” shall have
the meaning established in Chapter
3715 of the Revised Code. “Food service operation” and “retail food
establishment” shall have the meaning established in Section 3717.01 of
the Revised Code.
(b) “Food handling establishment”
means a business establishment or
vehicle, where food is either prepared, manufactured, compounded,
stored, mixed, packed, demonstrated,
given away, peddled, vended, dispensed, delivered from, offered for
sale or sold with the exceptions of
“food service operations” and “retail
food establishments” as defined by
State law.
(c) “Wholesale” shall have the
meaning
established
in
Section
3715.021 of the Revised Code.
(d) “Food shop” applies to “foodhandling
establishment,”
“retail
food establishment” and “food service operation.”
Section 241.04 Quality and Labeling Standards
(a) The definitions and standards
of identity, the standard of quality,
the standard of fill of container and
the labeling requirements for any
food sold or manufactured in the
City shall be those established for
interstate commerce by the United
States Food and Drug Administration and Ohio Department of Agriculture.
(b) Unless otherwise specified in
this chapter, the definitions and
standards of identity and the labeling requirements for meat, meat byproducts and meat food products
sold or manufactured in the City
shall be those of the Ohio Department of Agriculture.
Section 241.05 Food Shop Licenses
and Fees; Food Vehicle Permit
(a) No food shop shall be operated without the person, firm, association or corporation conducting such
business first applying for and
obtaining an annual license issued
by the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses. No business vehicle
used regularly for the transportation, delivery, vending or peddling
of food except a commercial carrier
transporting food incidental to other
deliveries, shall transport, deliver,
vend or peddle food in the City without the owner obtaining an annual
food vehicle permit for such vehicle.
(b) For food handling establishments, the annual fee shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for less than
2,500 square feet of floor space. For
floor space in excess of 2,500 square
feet, the fee shall be thirty-five dollars ($35.00).

2795

15
(c) For a food vehicle permit the
annual fee shall be ten dollars
($10.00).
(d) Food handling licenses and
food vehicle permits shall expire not
later than the last day of February
of the next ensuing year after
issuance, and they shall not be
transferable except in accordance
with Section 3717.46 of the Revised
Code.
(e) The holder of a food service
operation license as defined by state
law shall not be required to obtain
a retail food establishment license
except when the activities of a
retail food establishment and a food
service operation are carried on
within the same facility by the same
person or entity, then the determination of what license applies shall
be made according to the primary
business of the person or entity as
determined by the licensor, the City
of Cleveland Director of Public
Health
as
described
in
Section
3717.44 of the Revised Code.
(f) The holder of a food service
operation license or retail food
establishment license shall not be
required to obtain a food handling
license.
(g) For a mobile food service
operations, the annual fee shall be
Two Hundred Sixty-Three Dollars
($263.00).
(h) For a vending food service
operation, the annual fee shall be
Twenty-Nine Dollars ($29.00).
(i) For a temporary food service
operation, the fee shall be FortyEight Dollars ($48.00) per day.
(j) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses may also collect
fees for collection and bacteriological examination of samples taken
from a food shop in an amount
equal to the cost of such collection
and examination as determined by
the Commissioner of Environment.
(k) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses may also collect
fees for plan reviews of food shops
of an amount equal to thirty percent
(30%) of the food shop license fee
for said shops, except for plans pertaining to mobile or temporary food
service operations or vending locations.
(l) The Commissioner shall submit all applications for a food shop
license to the City of Cleveland
Director of Public Health for approval or disapproval of such application.
(m) The Commissioner is authorized to collect license fees for retail
food establishments and food service operations and deposit such
fees into a fund created pursuant to
Sections 3717.25 and Section 3717.45
of the Revised Code.
(n) The Commissioner is authorized to collect license fees for food
handlers and all food handlers’
license fees and deposits shall be
retained by the licensor.
(o) For purposes of this Section,
noncommercial
organizations
are
defined as organizations such as
churches, or non-profit organizations
operated exclusively for charitable
purposes as defined in division
(B)(12) of Section 5739.02 of the
Revised Code, provided that displayed foods are not displayed for
more than seven (7) consecutive
days or more than fifty-two (52) separate days per year.
(p) A penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of
any license fee
required by this section must be paid

The City Record

16
prior to the issuance of the license
if the required license fee is not paid
on or before the date it is due.
Section 241.09 Food Shop Premises
to be Free of Insects and Rodents
All buildings and portions of
buildings in which food is prepared,
stored or served shall be of rat-proof
construction and insect and rodent
free. When flies are prevalent, all
openings to the outer air shall be
effectively screened and doors shall
be self-closing unless other effective
means are provided to prevent their
entrance.
Section 241.20 Transportation
No
food
shall
be
transported
unless it is so covered that it is protected from dust, dirt, insects and
other
contaminating
substances.
Every
vehicle
transporting
food
shall be kept in a clean, sanitary
condition.
Section 241.21 Display
No food shall be displayed in,
upon or over any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place in the
City, except in districts designated
by the City as market districts. Produce or other foodstuffs displayed
outside on the food shop’s property
shall be displayed so as to be protected from contamination.
Section 241.22 Licensing Outdoor
Restaurants: Procedure and Fee
(a) To provide for issuance of
annual licenses by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses and
to direct the Director of Public
Health to develop rules for such
operations not inconsistent with
state statutes and regulations, application shall be accepted by the Commissioner
of
Assessments
and
Licenses
from
restaurants,
the
approval of which will allow them
to serve food and beverages outdoors.
(b) Each license application shall
have included with it a sketch of
the premises showing what outdoor
areas are proposed to be used for
the serving of food and beverages.
(c) Before any food shop may
expand its operation to an outdoor
area, it must submit a new application and new sketch of the premises to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses and obtain
approval as required herein.
(d) This section shall in no way
supercede any applicable portions of
City or state health regulations.
(e) On the approval of the application by the Commissioner of Environmental Health, the Commissioner
of Assessments and Licenses shall
issue the food shop license. Denial
of a food shop license may be
appealed to the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
(f) After issuance of the food
shop license, each applicant must
submit an application for a permit
pursuant to Chapter 513 of these
codified ordinances.
Section 241.26 Health of Food Shop
Personnel
(a) No person shall be permitted
to work in a food shop unless he or
she is free from disease in a communicable form or a carrier state.
When reasonable cause exists to
suspect the possibility of transmission of disease from any person handling food, the Commissioner of
Environmental Health may exclude

November 15, 2000

immediately such person from food
handling until such time as he or
she is satisfied that such person is
free from the possibility of transmitting disease.
(b) No person shall be permitted
to work in a food shop if they are
known or suspected of having a disease in a communicable form or a
carrier state in any capacity in
which food is handled.
Section 241.27 Drug Stores
All drug stores shall be maintained in a clean, sanitary manner
and in accordance with the rules
established for retail food establishments in Chapter 3717 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 2. That the existing sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 241.03 and 241.04, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 511-76,
passed June 14, 1976,
Section 241.05, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2015-95, passed December 18, 1995, and
Sections
241.09,
241.20,
241.21,
241.22, as enacted by Ordinance No.
511-76, passed June 14, 1976
Section 241.231, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1598-90, passed December 17, 1990,
Sections 241.26 and 241.27, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 511-76,
passed June 14, 1976,
are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances are hereby supplemented by
enacting new Sections 241.041 and
241.051, to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 241.041 Safe food Sanitation Standards
The definitions and standards for
safe sanitation in retail food establishments and food service operations shall be any established as the
Ohio Uniform Food Safety Code, promulgated by The Ohio Director of
Agriculture and Ohio Public Health
Council pursuant to Section 3717.05
of the Revised Code.
Section 241.051 Categories and
Fees
(a) Each application to the Commissioner of Licenses and Assessments for a food service operation
license required pursuant to Section
3717.43 of the Revised Code, or for
a retail food establishment license
required pursuant to Section 3717.21
of the Revised Code shall be accompanied by a combined license and
inspection fee as follows:
(1) Food Service Operations and
Retail Food Establishments less than
10,000 square feet of floor space:
Risk Level
Level
Level
Level
Level
Level

Fee

I
II
III
IV
V

$ 140.00
216.00
398.00
450.00
495.00

(2) Food Service Operations and
Retail Food Establishments in excess of 10,000 square feet of floor
space:
Risk Level
Level
Level
Level
Level
Level

Fee

I
II
III
IV
V

$ 219.00
260.00
889.00
942.00
964.00

2796

(3) Non-Commercial Food Service
Operations
and
Non-Commercial
Retail Food Establishments less
than 10,000 square feet of floor
space:
Risk Level
Level
Level
Level
Level
Level

I
II
III
IV
V

Fee
$ 70.00
108.00
199.00
225.00
247.00

(4) Non-Commercial Food Service
Operations and Non-Commercial Retail Food Establishments in excess
of 10,000 square feet of floor space:
Risk Level
Level
Level
Level
Level
Level

I
II
III
IV
V

Fee
$ 109.00
130.00
444.00
471.00
482.00

(b) The risk level categories
described herein shall have the
meaning established in any rules
promulgated pursuant to Chapter
3717 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 4. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 243.01 and 243.02, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1460-64,
passed June 29, 1964,
Section 243.03, as amended by ordinance No. 2301-80, passed March 2,
1981, and
Sections
243.04,
243.05,
243.06,
243.07, 243.08, 243.09, 243.10, 243.11,
243.12, 243.13, 243.14, 243.15, 243.16,
243.17,
are hereby repealed.
Section 5. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 243.01 thereof to read as
follows:
CHAPTER 243
OHIO UNIFORM FOOD
SAFETY CODE
Section 243.01 Ohio Uniform Food
Safety Code
The Ohio Uniform Food Safety
Code as promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Agriculture and Ohio
Public Health Council pursuant to
Section 3717.05 of the Revised Code,
is hereby adopted and incorporated
by the City of Cleveland as fully as
if set forth herein.
Section 6. That Sections 245.01,
through and including 245.19 of the
Codified Ordinances, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 1461-64, passed June
29, 1964, are hereby repealed.
Section 7. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Sections 245.01 to 245.12 to read,
respectively, as follows:
CHAPTER 245
FROZEN DESSERTS
Section 245.01 Definitions
(a) “Frozen desserts” means ice
cream, frozen custard, milk sherbet,
ice or ice sherbet, imitation ice
cream, frozen dairy dessert, ice milk
and
similar
frozen
or
partially
frozen dairy food products.
(b) “Mix” means the unfrozen
combination of the ingredients of a
frozen dessert.

November 15, 2000
Section 245.02 License or Permit
Required
No person, form or corporation shall
manufacture, package, sell or distribute within the City any frozen
desserts or mixes, without first obtaining a license pursuant to Section
241.05 of these codified ordinances.
Section
245.03
Standards
and
Labeling
All frozen desserts and mixes
shall conform in standards to the
definitions of such products as set
forth in the Ohio Revised Code, or
in the regulations of the Ohio
Department
of
Agriculture.
All
frozen desserts and mixes shall be
properly labeled as required by law,
and such label shall include the
name and address of the manufacturer, packager or distributor. In the
event the name and address is that
of the distributor, or the manufacturer has more than one plant, the
processing plant must be identified
on the label in a manner acceptable
to the Commissioner of Environmental Health. Labeling and identity requirements need not apply to
retail manufacturers who do not
harden and store frozen desserts for
sale or distribution. Labels shall not
be misleading.
Section 245.04 Protection from Contamination
All places where frozen desserts
and mixes are manufactured or handled shall be thoroughly clean. Operations shall be located and conducted to prevent any contamination of
food,
equipment
or
containers.
Spilled, overflowed or leaked product shall be discarded. All milk,
milk products or mix drained from
equipment at the end of a run shall
be handled in a sanitary manner.
Section 245.05 Sanitary Facilities
All places where frozen desserts
and mixes are manufactured or
handled shall be in conformance
with City ordinances regarding toilet facilities and hand washing
facilities, and the water supply shall
be easily accessible, adequate and
of a safe, sanitary quality.
Section 245.06 Design, Construction and Sanitizing of Equipment
(a) All equipment, piping and containers used for the processing, conducting
and
storing
of
frozen
desserts and mixes shall be of sanitary design and construction and
shall be handled in a sanitary manner.
(b) Equipment and multi-use containers shall be thoroughly cleaned
and sanitized after each use, and
adequate facilities shall be provided
for cleaning and sanitizing equipment and containers. Empty containers shall be thoroughly cleaned
before being returned to the manufacturer of frozen desserts and
mixes. Single use containers shall
not be reused. Dippers and other
utensils used intermittently for dispensing frozen desserts shall be
kept in running water with adequate
velocity
and
volume
to
cleanse them.
Section 245.07 Vehicle Regulations
All vehicles used in transporting,
delivering
or
peddling
frozen
desserts or mixes shall be clean,
well constructed and properly insulated.
Such
vehicles
shall
be
licensed and properly identified.

The City Record
Section 245.08 Transferring and
Dispensing
No ice cream or mix shall be packaged,
dispensed
or
transferred
except in a clean, sanitary manner.
Section 245.09 Personnel Health
and Cleanliness
All persons engaged in the processing of frozen desserts or mixes
shall be clean in person and habits
and shall wear clean, washable
clothing and caps. They shall not
use tobacco in any form while working. All such persons shall be free
of contagious or infectious disease
in active or carrier state, and shall
submit to an annual physical examination, the record of which shall be
kept on file and exhibited upon
demand of the Commissioner of
Environmental Health or his agent.
Section 245.10 Peddling of Frozen
Desserts
No person, firm or corporation
shall peddle frozen desserts within
the
City
unless
the
following
requirements are complied with:
(a) All such products shall be
completely wrapped or packaged in
a licensed place of business and all
such wrappings or packages shall
be labeled with:
(1) Name of the product;
(2) Name and address of the manufacturer;
(3) Net contents by weight or volume.
(b) All such products shall be
properly refrigerated to inhibit bacterial growth.
(c) All persons employed as peddlers shall be at least sixteen years
of age and:
(1) Be in the regular employment
of the licensee;
(2) Wear clean, washable garments or uniforms;
(3) Maintain himself in a clean
and personable condition.
(d) All frozen desserts shall be
transported in sanitary containers,
which must be washed after each
day’s use. Such containers shall be
used for no other purpose than the
transportation of frozen desserts
and shall be stored only at the place
of business of the licensee. Such containers shall conspicuously display
the name of the licensee.
(e) All vehicles used to peddle
frozen desserts shall be stored or
parked in clean surroundings when
not in use.
Section 245.11 Noise from Peddlers
No peddler of frozen dessert shall
cry his wares in a loud voice or use
any noise-producing device other
than a soft chime, the limit of audibility of which shall be one hundred
(100) feet from the source of such
sounds, and otherwise shall be in
conformity with the provisions of
Section 605.12 of the codified ordinances.
Section 245.12 Prohibited Places
No peddler of frozen desserts shall
manufacture his wares on any City
street, sell his wares in areas designated by the Commissioner of
Traffic Engineering and Parking as
a congested area or peddle frozen
desserts in or on City property without the written consent of the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

2797

17
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Public Safety, Parks, Recreation and Properties, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Health, Public
Safety, Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 2026-2000.
By Councilmen Polensek, Rybka,
Dolan,
Cimperman,
Britt,
Brady,
White, Patmon, O’Malley, Sweeney,
Lewis, Melena and Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 135.33 and 135.331 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance
No. 2092-80, passed December 8, 1980,
relating to Emergency Medical Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 135.33 and
135.331 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 2092-80, passed December 8, 1980, are hereby amended to
read respectively as follows:
Section 135.33 Bureau of Emergency Medical Service
There is hereby established a
Bureau of Emergency Medical Service within the Division of Fire in
the Department of Public Safety,
which shall be administered and controlled by an Assistant Chief of the
Division of Fire to be known as the
Assistant Chief for Emergency Medical Service, subject to the provisions
of the Charter and Ordinances of the
City and to the direction of the Chief
of the Division of Fire.
Section 135.331 Duties of the Assistant Chief for Emergency Medical
Service
The Assistant Chief of Emergency
Medical Service shall supervise the
work of other officers and employees in the Bureau; have charge of
the planning, management and operation of a system to provide emergency medical services to persons in
need of pre-hospital care; shall collect duly established charges for
such services and keep such records
pertaining to the Bureau as may be
necessary or useful in the efficient
management of the Bureau.
Section 2. That existing Sections
135.33 and 135.331 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 2092-80,
passed December 8, 1980, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.

18
Ord. No. 2027-2000.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
one or more Concession Agreements
with the Ohio Rehabilitation Services Commission, Bureau of Services for the Visually Impaired for
the operation of a snack bar and
vending machines at the Carl B.
Stokes Building and the Cleveland
Public Power Building.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby
authorized to enter into one or more
Concession Agreements with the
Ohio Rehabilitation Services Commission, Bureau of Services for the
Visually Impaired, for the operation
of a snack bar and installation of
vending machines at the Carl B.
Stokes Building located at 1201
Lakeside Avenue and for the operation of vending machines at the
Cleveland Public Power Building
located at 1300 Lakeside Avenue, for
a period not to exceed three (3)
years.
Section 2. That the Concession
Agreements authorized herein shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
and shall contain such additional
provisions as he deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 2028-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with The Revere
Group to provide for a ten year
abatement for certain tangible personal property taxes as an incentive
to acquire personal property located
at 2000 Sycamore, Cleveland, Ohio
44113.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and

The City Record
Whereas, The Revere Group (the
“Enterprise”) has proposed to acquire
personal property located at 2000
Sycamore, Cleveland, Ohio 44113; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of personal property taxes the
Enterprise would be at a competitive disadvantage by operating at
this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a five (5) year abatement for certain tangible personal
property taxes as an incentive to
acquire personal property located at
2000
Sycamore,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44113; said abatement shall be subject to annual review of the Tax
Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 2028-2000-A. The terms of
said file notwithstanding, the terms
of the tax abatement shall not be
amended, nor shall the tax abatement be assignable or transferrable
to any entity, without the prior legislative authorization by Cleveland
City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.

2798

November 15, 2000
Ord. No. 2029-2000.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 5 of Ordinance No. 159-98,
passed June 15, 1998, relating to a
Tax Increment Financing Agreement with Third Federal Savings
and Loan Association; to supplement
said ordinance by adding new Section 6; and to renumber existing Sections 6 and 7 to new Sections 7 and
8.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 5 of Ordinance No. 159-98, passed June 15,
1998, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 5. That the balance of the
service payments collected pursuant
to Section 3 hereof shall be distributed by the Cuyahoga County Treasurer to the Treasurer of the City of
Cleveland and deposited in Fund No.
10 SF 501 and Fund No. 17 SF 008
to recover expenditures from the
Neighborhood Development Investment Fund (“NDIF”) and the UDAG
Repayments Fund (“UDAGRF”) in
an amount equal to NDIF and
UDAGRF funds, plus interest, authorized pursuant to Section 6 hereof,
and appropriated by Ordinance No.
241-98, passed June 15, 1998, as
amended to those public improvements and such other purposes more
fully described in such appropriating legislation. Said appropriation
of NDIF funds shall not exceed
$2,000,000.00;
appropriation
from
UDAGRF funds shall not exceed
$220,000.
Section 2. That existing Section 5
of Ordinance No. 159-98, passed June
15, 1998, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 15998, passed June 15, 1998, is hereby
supplemented by adding new Section 6 to read as follows:
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with Third Federal to provide financial assistance to partially finance
a neighborhood land-bank program
operated by Third Federal within
the Area, as more fully described in
File No. ___________; the costs of
said contract shall not exceed the
amount of UDAGRF funds appropriated pursuant to Ordinance No. 24198, as amended, less the amount
expended for those public improvements authorized pursuant to Ordinance No. 241-98.
Section 4. That existing Sections 6
and 7 of Ordinance No. 159-98, passed
June 15, 1998, are hereby renumbered, respectively, to new “Section
7” and “Section 8”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

November 15, 2000
Ord. No. 2030-2000.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 5 of Ordinance No. 241-98,
passed June 15, 1998, relating to the
rehabilitating
Broadway
Avenue
and Aetna Avenue, including but not
limited to streetscape and roadway
improvements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 5 of Ordinance No. 241-98, passed June 15,
1998, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 5. That the cost of the
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 10 SF
501 in an amount not to exceed
$2,000,000, Fund No. 17 SF 008 in an
amount not to exceed $220,000 and
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the proceeds of the grant
and gift money accepted pursuant,
respectively, to Sections 3 and 4 of
this ordinance, Request No. 23340.
Section 2. That the existing Section 5 of Ordinance No. 241-98,
passed June 15, 1998, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 2031-2000.
By Councilmen Jones, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located in Block H of the Cleveland
Industrial Park to JRM Chemical
Inc.
Whereas, the Director of Economic Development has requested the
sale of City-owned property no
longer needed for public use and
located in Block H of the Cleveland
Industrial Park; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined
that
the
following
described property is no longer
needed for public use:
Legal Description For
Parcel “B”
3.252 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Block “H” in the Lee-Seville/Cleveland Outerbelt Industrial Park (Vol.
231, Page 42) of part of Original

The City Record
Warrensville Township Lots Nos. 81,
82
and
103
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a Monument Box
with a 3/4" iron pin found at a Point
of Curvature in the Centerline of
Johnston Parkway (60 feet wide),
said Monument Box being South 00°
27' 00" East a distance of 399.21 feet
from a Monument Box with a Stone
found at the intersection of the centerlines of Velma Avenue (50 feet
wide) and said Johnston Parkway;
Thence South 89° 33' 00" West a
distance of 30.00 feet to a 5/8"
capped rebar set in the Westerly
right-of-way line of Johnston Parkway;
Thence North 00° 27' 00" West
along the Westerly right-of-way line
of Johnston Parkway a distance of
33.39 feet to a 5/8" capped rebar set,
which marks the true place of
beginning
for
the
following
described parcel of land;
Thence South 89° 33' 00" West a
distance of 374.91 feet to a 5/8"
capped rebar set in the Easterly line
of lands now or formerly owned by
N.B. Smith (AFN# 199904210602) and
also the Easterly line of Sublot No.
6 in the Cranbrook Subdivision No.
1 (Vol. 155, Pg. 1);
Thence North 01° 23' 30" West
along the Easterly line of Smith and
the Easterly line of said Cranbrook
Subdivision No. 1, a distance of
220.94 feet to a capped rebar found
at a Northeasterly corner of lands
now or formerly owned by W.
Tilgham (Vol. 13617, Pg. 149) and in
the Easterly line of Sublot No. 2;
Thence North 49° 42' 48" West
along the Easterly line of said
Tilgham and along the Easterly line
of said Sublot No. 2 a distance of
45.96 feet to a capped rebar found
at the Southeast corner of land now
or formerly owned by C. Starks Jr.
(Vol. 88-136, Pg. 257) and at the
Southeast corner of Sublot No. 1;
Thence North 00° 27' 30" West
along the Easterly line of Starks
and the Easterly line of Sublot No.
1 a distance of 90.00 feet to a 5/8"
iron pin found at the Northeast corner of said Starks and in the
Southerly right-of-way line of Velma
Avenue (50 feet wide);
Thence North 89° 32' 30" East
along the Southerly right-of-way
line of Velma Avenue a distance of
363.36 feet to a 5/8" capped rebar set
at a point of curvature;
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, having a
radius of 50.00 feet, an arc length
78.55 feet, a chord bearing of South
45° 27' 30" East a chord of 70.72
feet, to a 5/8" capped rebar set in
the Westerly right-of-way line of
Johnston Parkway;
Thence South 00° 27' 00" East
along the Westerly right-of-way line
of Johnston Parkway a distance of
290.96 feet to the true place of beginning, containing 3.0252 acres of
land, more or less, but subject to all
legal highways and easements of
record, as surveyed by Daniel J.
Cook, Registered Surveyor No. 7179,
of Campbell & Associates, Inc., in
December, 1999.
The above described parcel of
land is part of lands conveyed to the
City of Cleveland (Vol. 12105, Page
129) and lot split (Vol. 304, Page 48)
in Cuyahoga County Records.
The basis of bearings for the
above described parcel of land is
South 00° 27' 00" East for the centerline of Johnston Parkway (Vol.
231, Page 42) in Cuyahoga County
Records.

2799

19
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described property to JRM
Chemical Inc. at a price not less
than fair market value as determined by the Board of Control.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed shall
contain provisions including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control or Director of
Law protecting the parties as their
respective interests require and shall
specifically
contain
a
provision
against the erection of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2032-2000.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement
with
George
Fischel
using
Community
Development
Block Grant funds to provide an
emergency one-time three month
housing
rental
subsidy
to
a
low/moderate income family meeting the requirements for Community Development Block Grant Public
Services Subsistence Payment.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a grant
agreement
with
George
Fischel,
14200 Rainbow Avenue, in the City
of Cleveland, Ward 21, using Community Development Block Grant
funds to provide an emergency onetime three month housing rental subsidy to a low/moderate income family meeting the requirements of Community Development Block Grant
Public Services Subsistence Payment.
Section 2. That the amount of the
grant agreement authorized herein
shall not exceed $2070.00 and shall
be paid for from Fund No. 14 sub
class 026.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred by Director of Community Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

20
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 2033-2000.
By Councilman Cimperman (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Hamilton Court N.E.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Hamilton Court N.E. as
hereinafter described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate the following
described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all that
portion of HAMILTON COURT N.E.
(16.50 feet wide), extending Easterly from the Easterly line of East
38th Street (99.00 feet wide) to the
Westerly line of East 40th Street
(99.00 feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Res. No. 2034-2000.
By Councilmen Johnson and Britt
(by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate portions
of Williams Avenue and East 128th
Street.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portions of Williams Avenue and
East 128th Street as hereinafter
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate the following
described real property:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION VACATION
OF PORTIONS WILLIAMS AVE.
& E. 128TH ST.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
100 Acre Lots No. 429 and further
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
centerline of East 127th Street (44.00
feet wide) and the centerline of
Williams Avenue (50.00 feet wide);
Thence
North
89°-36'-00"
East
along the centerline of Williams
Avenue, 190.25 feet to the principal
place of beginning of Williams
Avenue to be vacated and further
bounded and described as follows:
Thence North 00°-24'-00" West,
25.00 feet to a point on the northerly line of Williams Avenue;
Thence North 89°-36'-00" East along
the northerly line of Williams Avenue,
49.63 feet to a point of curvature;
Thence along the curved line of
Williams Avenue deflecting to the
right, an arc of 76.83 feet, said curve

The City Record
having a radius of 89.61 feet and a
chord that bears South 20°-16'-40"
East, 74.50 feet to a point on the
curved easterly line of East 128th
Street;
Thence
continuing
along
the
curved line of East 128th Street,
deflecting to the right, an arc of
48.58 feet, said curve having a
radius of 89.61 feet and a chord that
bears South 11°-14'-43" East 47.99
feet to a point of tangency;
Thence South 04°-16'-45" West along
the easterly line of East 128th Street,
142.34 feet to a point of curvature;
Thence along a curved turnout to
East 128th Street deflecting to the
left, an arc of 32.18 feet, said curve
radius of 19.86 feet and a chord that
bears South 42°-07'-32" East, 28.77
feet to a point on the northerly line
of Drexmore Road, (60.00 feet wide);
Thence North 88°-31'-50" West
along the westerly prolongation of
Drexmore Road, 65.91 feet to the
westerly line of East 128th Street;
Thence North 04°-16'-45" East along
the westerly line of East 128th Street,
165.61 feet to a point of curvature;
Thence along the curved turnout
of East 128th Street deflecting to the
left, an arc of 65.54 feet, said curve
having a radius of 40.00 feet and a
chord that bears North 42°-39'-38"
West, 58.45 feet to a point in the
southerly line of Williams Avenue;
Thence South 89°-36'-00" West
along the southerly line of Williams
Avenue, 53.55 feet to a point;
Thence North 00°-24'-00" West,
25.00 feet to the principal place of
beginning and containing 0.1215
acres of land with Williams Avenue
and 0.2238 acres of land with East
128th
Street
as
calculated
and
described by North Coast Engineering and Surveying Co., in May, 2000,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 2035-2000.
By Councilmen Britt, Patmon, Willis, Coats and Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with the Northeastern Neighborhood
Development Corporation for partial
support of the Sim’s Raiders football
team and booster club participation
in the championship tournament to
carry out the public purpose of providing recreation programs for residents of the city through the use of
Ward 6, 8, 9, 10 and 11 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Northeastern Neighborhood
Development Corporation for partial
support of the Sim’s Raiders football

2800

November 15, 2000
team and booster club participation
in the championship tournament to
carry out the public purpose of providing recreation programs for residents of the city through the use of
Ward 6, 8, 9, 10 and 11 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2036-2000.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Brady,
Britt,
Coats,
Gordon,
Robinson,
Sweeney and Willis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Cleveland State University Black Studies Program for partial support of the Kuumba Arts
Festival to carry out the public purpose of supporting community cultural festivals, through the use of
Ward 3, 6, 9, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Cleveland State University Black Studies Program for partial support of the Kuumba Arts
Festival to carry out the public purpose of supporting community cultural festivals.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,500 and shall be for
services rendered by the grantee on
or after September 1, 2000 and shall
be paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

November 15, 2000
Ord. No. 2037-2000.
By Councilmen Cimperman and
Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Tremont West Development Corporation to hang forty-eight (48)
Christmas Wreaths on both C.E.I.
and C.P.P. utility poles (by separate
permission)
on
streets
in
the
Tremont Area for the period of
November 22, 2000 to January 8,
2001, inclusive, to celebrate the Holiday Season.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That nothwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to The
Tremont West Development Corporation 2190 Professor Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113; to install, maintain and remove forty-eight (48)
Christmas Wreaths on Cleveland
Public Power and Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company utility
poles (by separate permissions) on
streets in the Tremont Area for the
period from November 22, 2000 to
January 8, 2001, inclusive, at the
following locations and utility pole
numbers: Sacket & Scranton S.E.
Corner, #406124; Clover & Scranton
NE
Corner,
#40678;
Corning
&
Scranton N.E., #40675; Meyer &
Scranton N.E., #NE40608; Holmden
& Scranton, CEI; Buhrer & Scranton, #NW42826 & 42816; Prame &
Scranton,
CEI;
Starkweather
&
Scranton, #NE68 AOM1251; Literary
& Professor, CEI; College & Professor, #47955 & 47956; Jefferson &
Professor,
CEI;
Starkweather
&
Professor, #48116; Literary & W.
7th St., #SE 47931; College & W. 7th
St., CEI; Jefferson & W. 7th St.,
CEI; Marquardt & W. 7th St., #NE
48036; Starkweather & W. 7th, CEI;
W. 10th & Starkweather, CEI; Clark
Ave. & W. 14th, #44645; W. 10th &
Jefferson, #46259; W. 10th & Kenilworth, #s 46115 & 46184; W. 10th &
Literary, #47915; W. 10th & Fairfield, #47911; W. 14th & Kenilworth,
#46147; W. 11th & Starkweather,
#HOM-1A-11; W. 11th & Kenilworth,
#s 46120 & 46121; W. 11th & Literary, #46192; W. 11th & Fairfield,
#46136; W. 11th & Starkweather,
#46214;
Professor
&
Literary,
#47921; W. 14th & Fairfield, #HOM1-18; W. 14th & Kenilworth, #46147;
W. 14th & Clark, #44642; W. 14th &
Branch Ct., #44539; W. 14th &
Auburn, #44536; W. 14th & Mentor,
#44668; W. 14th & Rowley, #44780;
W. 14th & Holmden, #44710; W. 14th
& Starkweather, #s HOM-1A, HOM1-32, Hom-1-7; W. 14th & Kenilworth,
#HOM-1-29; Scranton & Starkweather, #44421; Scranton & Auburn,
#44413; Scranton & Mentor; #44519;
Scranton & Clark, #428134; Scranton
& Valentine, #40681; Scranton &
Brainard, #40609; Scranton & Holmden, #42814; Scranton & Castle,
#42760. Said Wreaths shall be approved by the Director of Public
Safety, as to type, method of affix-

The City Record
ing and location so as not interfere
with any sign erected and maintained under the requirements of
law or ordinance. The permission of
the owner of any pole from which
a wreath will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on
said wreaths and said wreaths
shall be removed promptly upon the
expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2038-2000.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 661-2000, passed May 1, 2000,
relating to a grant agreement with
the Clark Metro Development Corporation for their revitalization of
the FL Thompson Building, 3401
West 25th Street to carry out the
public purpose of creating or preserving jobs and employment opportunities to preserve the economic
welfare of the State, through the use
of Wards 14 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 661-2000,
passed May 1, 2000, are hereby
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with the Clark Metro Development Corporation for their revitalization of the FL Thompson Building, 3401 West 25th Street to carry
out the public purpose of creating or
preserving jobs and employment
opportunities to preserve the economic welfare of the State, through
the use of Wards 14 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with the Clark Metro Development Corporation for their revitalization of the FL Thompson Building, 3401 West 25th Street to carry
out the public purpose of creating or
preserving jobs and employment
opportunities to preserve the economic welfare of the State, through
the use of Wards 14 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the existing Title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 6612000, passed May 1, 2000 are hereby
repealed.

2801

21
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2039-2000.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Second
Metropolitan
Church
to
stretch banners on the corner of East
79th and Quincy Avenue, corner of
Sherman and East 79th Street and in
front of 2424 East 79th Street for the
period from December 1, 2000 to January 5, 2001, inclusive, publicizing
the Church’s 75th Anniversary.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Second Metropolitan Church to install, maintain and
remove banners on the corner of
East 79th and Quincy Avenue (pole
no. CPP 75463), corner of Sherman
and East 79th Street (pole no. CPP
75426) and in front of 2424 East 79th
Street (pole no. CPP NT), for the
period from December 1, 2000 to January 5, 2001, inclusive. Said banner
shall be approved by the Director of
Public Service, in consultation with
the Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed
or permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

22
Ord. No. 2040-2000.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Northeast Shores Development
Corporation to hang thirty-two (32)
Holiday Decorations on CPP utility
poles (by separate permission) on
various sites on E. 185th St., Waterloo Rd., & E. 156th St. for the period
of November 22, 2000 to January 5,
2001, inclusive, to celebrate the Holiday Season.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to the
Northeast Shores Development Corporation 15721 Waterloo Road, Suite
200, Cleveland, Ohio 44110; to install,
maintain and remove
thirty-two
(32) Holiday Decorations on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by
separate permission) on portions of
the following streets and utility
pole numbers: East 185th Street West Side: 18482 Lake Shore, York
Video, No Tag; 542 E. 185th, Jackshaw Lot, No Tag; 632 E. 185th,
Beachland Hardware, No Tag; 694
E. 185th, Hoffman TV, #A8668; 726
E. 185th, Mr. Cars, #DOM31-22; 782
E. 185th, Harland Bldg., No Tag; 832
E. 185th, Julia Psychic, #A8775; 910
E. 185th, Sunoco, #DOM 31-7; 1010 E.
185th,
House,
#A7927;
Waterloo
Road - South Side: 15300 Waterloo,
#A2773; 15322 Waterloo, #A2774;
15414
Waterloo,
#A2775;
15430
Waterloo, #A2776; 15504 Waterloo,
#A2777;
15504
Waterloo,
#2778;
15602
Waterloo,
#A2779;
15610
Waterloo, #A2780; SW Corner E.
157th,
#A2781;
15704
Waterloo,
#A2782; 15712 Waterloo, #A2783;
15800
Waterloo,
#A2784;
15812
Waterloo, #A2785; 16006 Waterloo,
#A4078; 2nd pole E. of E.160th,
#A4077; 4th pole E. of E.160th,
#A4075; E. 156th Street: 362 E. 156th
St. (W), #A2672; 376 E. 156th St.
(W), #A2673; 382 E. 156th St. (W),
#A2715; 15812 Waterloo (S), #A2720;
from the period of November 22,
2000 to January 5, 1998, inclusive.
Said Holiday Decorations shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Safety, as to type, method of affixing and location so as not interfere
with any sign erected and maintained under the requirements of
law or ordinance. The permission of
the owner of any pole from which
a Holiday Decoration will be hung
must be obtained prior to issuance
of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or permitted
on said wreaths and said wreaths
shall be removed promptly upon the
expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

The City Record
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2041-2000.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Councilman Jay Westbrook to hang
twenty-four (24) Christmas Trees
with lights on Detroit Avenue from
the addresses of 10427 to 11650,
using CPP utility poles (by separate
permission) for the period of November 13, 2000 to January 31, 2001,
inclusive, to celebrate the Holiday
Season.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to Councilman Jay Westbrook, Ward #18,
Room 220 Cleveland City Council,
601 Lakeside Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114; to install, maintain and
remove twenty-four (24) Christmas
Trees with lights to be hung on
Cleveland
Public
Power
utility
poles
(by
separate
permission)
from the period of November 13,
2000 to January 31, 2001, inclusive,
at the following addresses and pole
numbers: 10427 Detroit (N), #E7-5;
10603 Detroit
(N), #E7-5; 10603
Detroit (S), #E8-18; W. 107th &
Detroit (S) #E8-17; 10717 Detroit
(S), #E8-16; W. 110th & Detroit (S),
E8-15; 11000 Detroit (N) #E7-11;
11029 Detroit (S), #E8-14; 11100
Detroit (N), #E8-13; 11119 Detroit
(S), #E8-12; 11200 Detroit (N), #E714; 11200 Detroit (S), #E7-27; 11210
Detroit (N), #E7-15; 11225 Detroit
(S), E8-10; 11310 Detroit (N), E7-16;
11409
Detroit
(S),
E8-8;
11510
Detroit (N), #E7-18; 11600 Detroit
(S), #E8-6; 11600 Detroit (N), #E720; 11603 Detroit (S), #E8-5; 11611
Detroit (S), #E8-4; 11616 Detroit
(N), E7-22; 11645 Detroit (S), #E8-2;
11650
Detroit
(N),
#E7-24;
and
which Christmas Trees with lights
in Ward #18 shall be approved by
the Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a wreath
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or permitted on said Christmas
Trees with lights, and shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

2802

November 15, 2000
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2042-2000.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend the Title and Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 1247-2000, passed July
17, 2000, relating to a grant agreement with Cudell Improvement, Inc.
for their residential crime watch
program, to carry out the public
purpose of providing crime prevention training and crime watch programs in Ward 18, through the use
of Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. the Title and Section 1
of Ordinance No. 1247-2000, passed
July 17, 2000, are hereby amended to
read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Cudell Improvement, Inc. for their residential crime
watch program, to carry out the public purpose of providing crime prevention training and crime watch
programs in Ward 18, through the
use of Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Cudell Improvement, Inc.
for their residential crime watch
program, to carry out the public
purpose of providing crime prevention training and crime watch programs in Ward 18, through the use
of Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the existing Title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 12472000, passed July 17, 2000 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

November 15, 2000
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 2043-2000.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 13429 Lakewood Hgts.
Blvd., 1st Fl. & Bsmt. Excl. 2nd Fl.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 1410123, Cheer-Up Inc., 13429
Lakewood Hgts. Blvd., 1st Fl. &
Bsmt. Excl. 2nd Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44107 to Permit No. 8850749, Terrapin
Station Ltd., 13429 Lakewood Hgts.
Blvd., 1st Fl. & Bsmt. Excl. 2nd Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44107; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 1410123, Cheer-Up Inc., 13429
Lakewood Hgts. Blvd., 1st Fl. &
Bsmt. Excl. 2nd Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44107 to Permit No. 8850749, Terrapin
Station Ltd., 13429 Lakewood Hgts.
Blvd., 1st Fl. & Bsmt. Excl. 2nd Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44107 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two

The City Record
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2044-2000.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 11730 Lorain Avenue, 1st
Fl./Front.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 7220737, Ray Bons Inc., 11730
Lorain Avenue, 1st Fl./Front, Cleveland, Ohio 44111 to Permit No.
2095642, Desolve Inc., DBA Neighborhood Bar & Grill, 11730 Lorain
Avenue, 1st Fl./Front, Cleveland,
Ohio 44111; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the trans-

2803

23
fer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 7220737, Ray Bons Inc., 11730
Lorain Avenue, 1st Fl./Front, Cleveland, Ohio 44111 to Permit No.
2095642, Desolve Inc., DBA Neighborhood Bar & Grill, 11730 Lorain
Avenue, 1st Fl./Front, Cleveland,
Ohio 44111 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2045-2000.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit to
7905 Cedar Avenue, and repealing
Res. No. 1258-2000 objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6
Liquor Permit to 7905 Cedar Avenue,
by Res. No. 1258-2000 adopted by
Council on July 17, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor
Permit to 7905 Cedar Avenue, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Res. No. 1258-2000, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

24
Res. No. 2046-2000.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 4409 Payne Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit
No.
1162873,
Joann
M.
Byrge, DBA Beverage Store, 4409
Payne
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44103; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 1162873, Joann M. Byrge,
DBA Beverage Store, 4409 Payne
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2047-2000.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 9621 Mt. Auburn Road, 1st
Fl. & Bsmt., and repealing Res. No.
785-2000 objecting to said transfer of
ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 9621 Mt.
Auburn Road, 1st Fl. & Bsmt., by
Res. No. 785-2000 adopted by Council
on May 8, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to 9621 Mt.
Auburn Road, 1st Fl. & Bsmt., be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Res. No. 785-2000, containing
said objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer of ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2048-2000.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 7102
Hough Avenue, and repealing Res.
No. 663-99 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit to 7102 Hough Avenue by
Res. No. 663-99 adopted by Council
on April 19, 1999; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw
its
objection
to
the
above renewal and consents to
said renewal based upon and pursuant to a cooperation agreement
signed November 13, 2000, a copy
of which is in the file for this
address with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure provid-

2804

November 15, 2000
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 7102 Hough Avenue, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Res. No. 663-99, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2049-2000.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 7017-19 Superior Avenue,
1st &~ 2nd Fls., and repealing Res.
No. 1321-99 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit to 7017-19
Superior Avenue, 1st & 2nd Fls. by
Res. No. 1321-99 adopted by Council
on July 14, 1999; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to
a
cooperation
agreement
signed
November 13, 2000, a copy of which
is in the file for this address with
the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit to 7017-19 Superior Avenue, 1st & 2nd Fls., be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Res. No. 1321-99, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

November 15, 2000
Res. No. 2050-2000.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 9108
Superior Avenue, 1st Fl. & Bsmt.,
and repealing Res. No. 1346-2000 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit to 9108 Superior Avenue, 1st
Fl. & Bsmt., by Res. No. 1346-2000
adopted by Council on July 28, 2000;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to
a
cooperation
agreement
signed
November 13, 2000, a copy of which
is in the file for this address with
the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 9108 Superior Avenue, 1st Fl.
& Bsmt., be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Res. No. 1346-2000,
containing said objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2051-2000.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the issuance of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 18506 St. Clair
Avenue, and repealing Res. No. 14522000 objecting to said issuance.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit
to 18506 St. Clair Avenue by Res. No.
1452-2000 adopted by Council on
August 7, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
issuance
and
consents
to
said
issuance based upon and pursuant
to a cooperation agreement signed
November 1, 2000, a copy of which
is in the file for this address with
the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland.
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
18506 St. Clair Avenue, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Res.
No. 1452-2000, containing said objection, be and the same is hereby

The City Record
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate issuance
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2052-2000.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit to
16921 St.~ Clair Avenue, ~1st Fl. and
repealing Res. No. 1273-2000 objecting to said transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 16921 St. Clair
Avenue by Res. No. 1273-2000 adopted by Council on July 17, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership based
upon and pursuant to a cooperation
agreement signed November 1, 2000,
a copy of which is in the file for
this address with the City Law
Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to 16921 St. Clair Avenue, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Res. No. 1273-2000, containing
said objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer of ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2053-2000.
By Councilman Robinson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to 3695-97 East 131st Street, 1st
Fl. & Bsmt., and repealing Res. No.
1360-2000 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to 3695-97 East 131st
Street, 1st Fl. & Bsmt. by Res. No.

2805

25
1360-2000 adopted by Council on July
28, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit to 3695-97 East 131st
Street, 1st Fl. & Bsmt., be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Res.
No. 1360-2000, containing said objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2054-2000.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock transfer of a C1, C2
and D6 Liquor Permit to 14302 Puritas Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the stock
transfer of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor
Permit, to Permit No. 1709357, Convenient Food Mart Inc. 357, DBA
Convenient Food Mart, 14302 Puritas
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44135; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

26
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the stock
transfer of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor
Permit to Permit No. 1709357, Convenient Food Mart Inc. 357, DBA
Convenient Food Mart, 14302 Puritas
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44135 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2055-2000.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 4611 West
130th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 84189840500,
Speedway Superamerica LLC, DBA
Speedway #3371, 4611 West 130th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44135 to Permit No. 91610350015, United Petroleum Marketing LLC, DBA UPM 201,
4611 West 130th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44135; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department

The City Record
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 84189840500,
Speedway Superamerica LLC, DBA
Speedway #3371, 4611 West 130th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44135 to Permit No. 91610350015, United Petroleum Marketing LLC, DBA UPM 201,
4611 West 130th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44135 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2056-2000.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 9501
Denison Avenue, 1st Fl., and repealing Res. No. 1480-99 objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit to 9501 Denison Avenue, 1st
Fl., by Res. No. 1480-99 adopted by
Council on August 11, 1999; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

2806

November 15, 2000
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 9501 Denison Avenue, 1st Fl.,
be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Res. No. 1480-99, containing said objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1676-2000.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of not
to exceed three hundred sixty winter jacket liners, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities,
Finance,
Law;
Recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1809-2000.
By Councilmen Britt, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity
contract with Swift Davis Cleaning
and Laundry, Inc. to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the renovation of
real
property
located
at
8220
Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1862-2000.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of commercial gases, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
Ord. No. 1863-2000.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of computer hardware, for
the various divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.

November 15, 2000
Ord. No. 1864-2000.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and material necessary to maintain typewriters, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1009-2000.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 73rd Street to
Cleveland Housing Network, Incorporated or designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committee on City Planning; Recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Strike Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 29, 30,
31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 and 40
in their entirety and renumber existing Sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 21, 22, 23, 24,
25, 26, 27, 28, 41, 42, 43, 44, respectively, to new “Section 1.”, “Section 2.”,
“Section 3.”, “Section 4.”, “Section 5.”,
“Section 6.”, “Section 7.”, “Section 8.”,
“Section 9.”, “Section 10.”, “Section 11.”,
“Section 12.”, “Section 13.”, “Section
14.”, “Section 15.”, and “Section 16.”.
2. In renumbered Section 1, line 3,
strike “6” and insert “2”; in renumbered Section 2, line 1, strike “5” and
insert “1”; in renumbered Section 3,
line 3, strike “8” and insert “4”; in
renumbered Section 4, line 1, strike
“7” and insert “3”; in renumbered
Section 5, line 3, strike “22” and
insert “6”; in renumbered Section 6,
line 1, strike “21” and insert “5”; in
renumbered Section 7, line 3, strike
“24” and insert “8”; in renumbered
Section 8, line 1, strike “23” and
insert “7”; in renumbered Section 9,
line 3, strike “26” and insert “10”; in
renumbered Section 10, line 1, strike
“25” and insert “9”; in renumbered
Section 11, line 3, strike “28” and
insert “12”; and in renumbered Section 12, line 1, strike “27” and insert
“11”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1957-2000.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Chapter 154 relating to creation
of the City Audit Commission.
Contents noted by Director of
Finance; Approved by Director Law;
Recommended by Committees on
Legislation, Finance; when amended
as follows:

The City Record
1. In the title, line 6; in the fifth
whereas clause, line 4; in Section 1,
line 7; in Section 1, at Section 154.01,
lines 2, 6 and appearing twice in
line 11; in Section 1, at Section
154.02, lines 2, 6, 8 and 10; in Section
1, at Section 154.03, lines 1 and 2; in
Section 1, at division (a)(2) of Section 154.03, line 3; in Section 1, at
division (a)(3) of Section 154.03, line
3; in Section 1, at division (b) of Section 154.03, line 1; in Section 1, at
division (c) of Section 154.03, lines
1, 14 and 15; in Section 1, at Section
154.04, lines 2, 5, 7, 9, and 11, strike
“Commission” and insert in lieu
thereof “Committee”; and in Section
1, line 4, strike “COMMISSION” and
insert in lieu thereof “COMMITTEE”; and in Section 1, at division
(a)(3) of Section 154.03, line 4,
strike “Commission’s” and insert in
lieu thereof “Committee’s”.
2. In Section 1, at Section 154.01,
line
3,
strike
“the
Director
of
Finance as”; in line 8, after “accounting,” insert “including some experience in governmental finance or
auditing,”; also in line 8, after
“Cleveland” strike the period insert
“in accordance with the ethics provisions of the Ohio Revised Code. In
addition, the Chair shall not have
had any duties pertaining to the
audit of the City of Cleveland for at
least five years prior to his appointment. In the event that the President of Council and Mayor fail to
jointly select a Chair within thirty
days of the vacancy of the seat,
then the President of Council shall
appoint a Chair.”; and in line 9, after
“years.” insert “The Clerk of Council shall publish the name of each
member and the Chair in the City
Record.”.
3. In Section 1, at division (a)(4)
of Section 154.03, line 1, strike
“serves” and insert in lieu thereof
“services”.
4. In Section 1, at Section 154.04,
line 5, between “public” and the period insert “and the dates and attendance of the meetings shall be published by the Clerk of Council in the
City Record. The Chair, however,
may hold executive sessions in
accordance with the provisions of
the Ohio Revised Code”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 468-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary for the design and installation of a data network, including
materials, maintenance and software necessary for its operation.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 909-2000.
By Councilmen Dolan and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to

2807

27
enter into contract with Colliers
Intl. for professional services necessary to manage and maintain the
building and grounds of the consolidated rental car facility at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control, for a
period of one year.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 941-2000.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 3335 East 93rd Street
to Mazhar A. Khan.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1056-2000.
By Councilmen Dolan, Cimperman
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
execute two easements granting to
SprintCom, Inc. certain easement
rights in property located at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
and declaring said easement rights
no longer needed for public use; proferring certain representations for
purposes of the Trust Indenture
from the City of Cleveland to the
Chase Manhattan Trust Company,
National Association, as successor
trustee and authorizing the Director
of Port Control to apply to the bond
trustee for land release; and authorizing the Director to enter into a
Lease By Way of Concession with
SprintCom for the purpose of installing, removing, replacing, modifying, maintaining and operating a
personal
communications
service
system facility.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1201-2000.
By Councilman Polensek (by request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Rick Case Enterprises on behalf of Rick Case
Motors, Inc., to encroach into the
right-of-way of their Honda dealership at I-90 and East 200th St. with
fencing, lighting and a (new car)
parking area.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1202-2000.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Winfield Avenue S.E.
hereinafter described.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1208-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase a site for
redevelopment at 1936 West 25th
Street, for the Department of Community Development.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

28
Ord. No. 1213-2000.
By Councilmen Rybka, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Maurice Bellford Corporation to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the renovation of real property located at
5900 Maurice Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44127.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1387-2000.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to remove and replace defective poles, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed one year.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1398-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating funds obtained from Norfolk
Southern and CSX; determining the
method
of
making
the
public
improvement of constructing noise
barriers and installing landscaping
on railroad property; and authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1399-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating funds obtained from Norfolk
Southern and CSX; and authorizing
the Director of Public Service to
enter into contract for the labor and
materials necessary to install fencing at various locations throughout
the City which is adjacent to railroad property.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1402-2000.
By Councilmen Gordon, O’Malley,
Cintron, Cimperman and Patmon (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 12 of Ordinance No. 2368-92,
passed December 14, 1992, as amended by Ordinance No. 1454-97, passed
November 24, 1997, relating to the
rehabilitation of Memphis Avenue
from Ridge road to Pearl Road.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1414-2000.
By Councilmen White, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
MPCL, LLC to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the renovation of real property located at 9250 Miles Park
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105.

The City Record
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1415-2000.
By Councilmen White, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with MPCL, LLC to
provide for a ten year abatement for
certain real estate taxes as an
incentive to renovate the real property located at 9250 Miles Park
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1599-2000.
By Councilmen White, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 3959 and 3983 East
120th Street to Union Miles Development Corporation.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1637-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of labor
and materials necessary to install a
maximum of six work stations, for
the Department of Port Control.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1642-2000.
By Councilmen White, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, the third whereas clause,
Section 1 and Section 2 of Ordinance
No. 1571-99, passed November 29,
1999, relating to an Enterprise Zone
Agreement with the Garland Company for property located at 3800
East 91st Street.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1679-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of reclaimed or virgin
asphalt concrete, for the Division of
Streets, Department of Public Service.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

November 15, 2000
the City of Cleveland’s share to the
County of Cuyahoga for the cost of
the rehabilitation of West 140th
Street.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1686-2000.
By Councilmen Melena, Cintron,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Economic Development and Public Service to apply
for and accept grants from the Economic Development Administration
and the Ohio Department of Development for the West 67th Place
Reconstruction Project; authorizing
said Directors to employ one or
more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants necessary to
design the project; determining the
method of making the public improvement of constructing the Project; authorizing said Directors to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire for right-ofway purposes such real property as
is necessary to make the improvement.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1795-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into contract with PeopleSoft USA,
Inc. for software maintenance and
support services for PeopleSoft modules, for the Division of Financial
Reporting and Control, Department
of Finance, for a period of one year
with two one-year options to renew.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 1417-2000.
By Councilman Johnson (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Cormere Avenue S.E.
Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Councilman O’Malley and seconded by Councilman Cimperman
and unanimously carried that the
absence
of
Council
President
Michael D. Polensek, and Councilman Nelson Cintron, Jr., Councilman
Michael A. Dolan, and Councilman
Edward W. Rybka be and is hereby
authorized.

Ord. No. 1680-2000.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of rock salt, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

The Council adjourned at 8:30 p.m.
to meet on Monday, November 20,
2000, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

Ord. No. 1682-2000.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Cintron
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 1 of Ordinance No.
2159-99, passed March 27, 2000, relating to authorizing the Director of
Public Service to cause payment of

Clerk of Council

2808

MOTION

November 15, 2000
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
ORDINANCES

Ord. No. 1676-2000.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of not
to exceed three hundred sixty winter jacket liners, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Ord. No. 1809-2000.
By Councilmen Britt, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development
to
enter
into
an
Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity contract with Swift Davis
Cleaning and Laundry, Inc. to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the renovation of real property located at
8220 Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Ord. No. 1862-2000.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of commercial gases, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Ord. No. 1863-2000.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of computer hardware, for
the various divisions of City government.
Ord. No. 1864-2000.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and material necessary to maintain typewriters, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.

BOARD OF CONTROL
November 8, 2000
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, November 8,
2000, at 11:00 a.m. with Director
Carter presiding.
Present: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Absent: Mayor White.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies.
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.

The City Record
Resolution No. 748-00.
By Director Brooks.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Carquest Auto Parts for an estimated quantity of automotive paint
(items #1 and #2), for the various
divisions
of
City
Government,
Department of Finance, for a period
of two (2) years beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on October 19, 2000, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 711-99, passed May 17, 1999,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to TwentyFive Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
($25,000.00) (2% - 10 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Finance is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. RE-17979
which shall be certified against
such contract in the total sum of
One Thousand Two Hundred-Fifty
and 00/100 Dollars ($1,250.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 749-00.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 73200, adopted by the Board on October
25, 2000, approving Cascade Lighting, Inc. for Outdoor Lighting Program (Material), item nos. 1 thru 8,
is amended by deleting the words
“two (2) years” and substituting the
words “one (1) year”.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 732-00 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 750-00.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Wesco Distribution, Inc. for an estimated quantity of 13.8 KV Distribution Transformers, item nos. 2, 5 thru 25, 27,
29 thru 39, 43, 45, 47 thru 51, 53, 54,
56, 57, 59, 60, 77 thru 105, 112, 113,
116, 118, 119, 136 thru 141, 143, 145,
147 and 148, except for such terms
and conditions as are not acceptable
to the Director of Law, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a

2809

29
period of two (2) years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on June 15, 2000, pursuant to the authority of Section
129.26 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to One Million Three
Hundred Sixty-Four Thousand Eight
Hundred Thirty and no/ 100 Dollars
($1,364,830.00) (Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby
requested to enter into requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 16919
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Three
Hundred
Fifty-Eight
Thousand
Three
Hundred
Eighty-Two
and
no/100 Dollars ($358,382.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 751-00.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the conditional bid of Reed City
Power Line Supply, Ohio Division
for an estimated quantity of 13.8 KV
Distribution Transformers, item nos.
1, 3, 4, 26, 28, 40, 41, 42, 44, 52, 55,
58, 61 thru 72, 106 thru 111, 114, 117,
121, 122, 127, 128, 129, 132, 134, 135,
142, 144 and 150 thru 165, except for
such terms and conditions as are not
acceptable to the Director of Law,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2) years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on June
15, 2000, pursuant to the authority of
Section 129.26 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to One Million
Five
Hundred
Seventy-Two
Thousand Two Hundred Seventy
and no/100 Dollars ($1,572,270.00)
(Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter
into requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 16918
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Seventy Nine Thousand Five and no/100
Dollars ($79,005.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be

30
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 752-00.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
bid of National Power X/Utiliserve
for an estimated quantity of 13.8 KV
Distribution Transformers, item nos.
46, 115, 120, 123 thru 126, 130, 131,
133, 146, and 149, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
two (2) years beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on June 15, 2000, pursuant
to the authority of Section 129.26 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to One Hundred Thirty-Two
Thousand Nine Hundred Sixty and
no/100 Dollars ($132,960.00) (Net 30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is hereby requested to enter into
requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 16917
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of TwentyFive Thousand Six Hundred Sixty
and no/100 Dollars ($25,660.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 753-00.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Cooper Power Systems for
an estimated quantity of 13.8 KV
Distribution Transformers, item nos.
166, 167, 168 and 169, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two (2) years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on June 15, 2000, pursuant to the authority of Section
129.26 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to One Hundred Thirty Thousand Two Hundred FortyFour
and
no/100
Dollars
($130,244.00) (Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby
requested to enter into requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,

The City Record
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 16916
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Four Thousand Two Hundred Sixteen and no/100 Dollars ($24,216.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 754-00.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of R & R Construction for
an estimated quantity of Outdoor
Lighting
Program
(Installation),
item nos. 9, 11, 12, 13, 15, 17 and 18,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one (1) year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
15th day of September 2000, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 822-2000, passed June 12, 2000 on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Thirteen Thousand
Four
Hundred
Forty-Five
and
no/100 Dollars ($13,445.00) (Net 30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is hereby requested to enter into
requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 31529
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ten
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($10,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 755-00.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Westside Lighting for an
estimated quantity of Outdoor Lighting Program (Installation), item
nos. 10, 14, 16 and 19, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on the 15th day of
September 2000, pursuant to the

2810

November 15, 2000
authority of Ordinance No. 822-2000,
passed June 12, 2000 on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Eight Thousand Eight
Hundred Twenty-Five and no/100
Dollars ($8,825.00) (Net 30 Days), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 31548
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Six Thousand
and no/100 Dollars ($6,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 756-00.
By Director Sheffield-McClain.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No 1107-94, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on June 13, 1994, and Board of
Control Resolution No. 751-98 adopted on November 4, 1998, the City,
through its Director of Port Control,
entered into City Contract No. 53711
with Parsons Engineering Science,
Inc. of Ohio (Consultant) for professional services necessary to prepare the Special Site Study and Preliminary
Engineering
Reports
required to relocate certain NASA
facilities in connection with the
expansion of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport; and
Whereas, by Board of Control Resolution No. 117-00, adopted by the
Board of Control on February 29,
2000, the Director of Port Control
was authorized to enter into a First
Amendment to City Contract No.
53711 for an addition to the scope of
work and increasing the compensation to Three Million Four Hundred
Seventy-Four Thousand Four Hundred Twenty-One and No/100 Dollars
($3,474,421.00); and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has determined it necessary to further amend the scope of work to,
perform
additional
Site
Studies,
include EIS support services, and
conduct Field Studies; and
Whereas, Consultant has proposed
by its letter dated August 15, 2000
to perform the additional services
necessary; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Port Control is hereby authorized to enter into a Second
Amendment
to
the
agreement
between the City of Cleveland and
Parsons Engineering Science, Inc. of
Ohio, Contract 57311 for an addition
to the scope of work based on the
Consultant’s letter dated August 15,
2000. The compensation for all consulting services shall be increased
from Three Million Four Hundred
Seventy-Four Thousand Four Hun-

November 15, 2000

The City Record

dred Twenty-One and No/100 Dollars
($3,474,421.00) to an amount not to
exceed Three Million Nine Hundred
Eighty-Three Thousand Four Hundred Twenty-One and No/100 Dollars
($3,983,421.00).
Yeas:
Director
Carter,
Acting
Director
Williams,
Director
Ricchiuto, Acting Director Harrison,
Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren, Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Brooks, Konicek.

1, 2000, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Three Hundred Thirty Four Thousand Five Hundred Thirteen and
80/100 Dollars ($334,513.80) (2% Net
30 Days), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:

Resolution No. 757-00.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Cenweld Corporation for an estimated quantity of dump bodies, Cenweld, including Option A, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for the period of one (1) year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on October 20,
2000, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1058-99, passed June
14, 1999, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
approximately Thirty-Three Thousand Six Hundred Eighty-Seven and
00/100 Dollars ($33,687.00) (Net 30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:

Requisition No. 17975
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Thirty
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($30,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Director
Carter,
Acting
Director
Williams,
Director
Ricchiuto, Acting Director Harrison,
Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren, Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Brooks, Konicek.

Requisition No. 17978
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of ThirtyThree
Thousand
Six
Hundred
Eighty-Seven and 00/100 Dollars
($33,687.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Cenweld Corporation for the above-mentioned purchase is hereby approved:
Independent Brokers, Ltd.
MBE — $960.00 per unit
Yeas:
Director
Carter,
Acting
Director
Williams,
Director
Ricchiuto, Acting Director Harrison,
Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren, Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Brooks, Konicek.
Resolution No. 758-00.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Nozzle New, Inc. for an estimated quantity of fuel dispensing pump
repair (all items), for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, for
the period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on September 27,
2000, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 266-2000, passed May

Resolution No. 759-00.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Wise International Trucks of
Ohio for an estimated quantity of
International Truck parts and labor
(all items), for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
September 21, 2000, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 267-2000,
passed May 8, 2000, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Two Hundred Seventy Five Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($275,000.00)
(2.5%
Net
30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 17976
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($20,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Wise
International Trucks of Ohio, for the
purchase of International Truck
parts and labor (all items), is hereby approved:
Independent Brokers, Inc.
MBE — $6,875.00 — 3%

2811

31
Yeas:
Director
Carter,
Acting
Director
Williams,
Director
Ricchiuto, Acting Director Harrison,
Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren, Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White, Directors
Brooks, Konicek.
Resolution No. 760-00.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Aon Risk Services, Inc. of Ohio
for an estimated quantity of Aviation Insurance, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety,
for the period of one (1) year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on October 5,
2000, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1108-2000, passed on
August 7, 2000, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to Ninety Nine Thousand,
Nine Hundred and 00/100 Dollars
($99,900.00) (Net 30 Days), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
such goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 06184
as specified
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ninety
Nine Thousand, Nine Hundred and
00/100 Dollars ($99,900.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Acting Director Williams, Director
Ricchiuto, Acting Director Harrison,
Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren, Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor
White, Director
Konicek.
Resolution No. 761-00.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on October 20, 2000, for
an estimated quantity of hammer
truck flatbed bodies for the Division
of Traffic Engineering and Parking,
Department of Public Safety, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 904-2000, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland on August
7, 2000, be and the same are hereby
rejected.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Acting Director Williams, Director
Ricchiuto, Acting Director Harrison,
Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren, Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor
White, Director
Konicek.
Resolution No. 762-00.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of CBF Industries, for an estimated
quantity of Furniture, item nos. 2, 512, 15-20, 24-26, 31, 33, 37 and 39, for
the Division of Police, Department
of Public Safety, for the period of
one (1) year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,

32
received on September 13, 2000, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 838-2000, passed on June 12, 2000,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to Sixty
Seven
Thousand,
Four
Hundred
Twenty
Three
00/100
Dollars
($67,423.00) (Net 30 Days), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
such goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 06102
Furniture, as specified
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Sixty Seven
Thousand, Four Hundred Twenty
Three 00/100 Dollars ($67,423.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Acting Director Williams, Director
Ricchiuto, Acting Director Harrison,
Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren, Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor
White, Director
Konicek.
Resolution No. 763-00.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Boise Cascade Office Products,
for an estimated quantity of Furniture, item nos. 1, 3, 29, 34-36, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
September 13, 2000, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 838-2000,
passed on June 12, 2000, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Ten Thousand,
Nine
Hundred
Sixty
Seven
and
20/100 Dollars ($10,967.20) (Net 30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 06101
Furniture, as specified
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Ten Thousand, Nine Hundred Sixty Seven and
20/100 Dollars ($10,967.20).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Acting Director Williams, Director
Ricchiuto, Acting Director Harrison,
Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren, Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor
White, Director
Konicek.

The City Record
Resolution No. 764-00.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Todays Office, Inc., for an estimated quantity of Furniture, item
nos. 4, 13-14, 21-23, 27-28, 30, 32 and
38, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on September 13,
2000, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 838-2000, passed on
June 12, 2000, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Thirty Nine Thousand,
Four Hundred Sixty Six and 81/100
($39,466.81) (Net 30 Days), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
such goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 06103
Furniture, as specified
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Thirty
Nine Thousand, Four Hundred Sixty
Six and 81/100 ($39,466.81).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Acting Director Williams, Director
Ricchiuto, Acting Director Harrison,
Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren, Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor
White, Director
Konicek.
Resolution No. 765-00.
By Director Jackson.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1007-2000, passed
October 23, 2000, by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized, by and at the direction
of the Board of Control, to sell certain City-owned property no longer
needed for public use, described
therein and located at 6564-6566
Broadway Avenue, also known as
Permanent Parcel Number 132-02-017,
to Jennifer Hajj; and
Whereas, said Ordinance No. 10072000 provided that the consideration
to be paid for the property shall be
at a price not less than the fair market value as determined by the
Board of Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 1007-2000,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on October 23, 2000, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby directed to sell certain City-owned property no longer
needed for public use, described
therein and located at 6564-6566
Broadway Avenue, also known as
Permanent Parcel Number 132-02-017,
to Jennifer Hajj. The consideration
to be paid for said property is hereby fixed at Twenty Thousand Seven
Hundred Dollars ($20,700.00), which
amount is determined to be not less
than the fair market value.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland is

2812

November 15, 2000
hereby requested to execute and
deliver the official deed of the City
of Cleveland conveying said property which document shall contain
such additional terms and conditions
as the Director of Law shall deem
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 766-00.
By Director Jackson.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1060-2000, passed
October 23, 2000, by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized, by and at the direction
of the Board of Control, to sell certain City-owned property no longer
needed for public use, described
therein and located on North Park
Boulevard in the City of Shaker
Heights, also known as a portion of
Permanent Parcel Number 733-10-014,
to Barry J. Minoff; and
Whereas, said Ordinance No. 10602000 provided that the consideration
to be paid for the property shall be
at a price not less than the fair market value as determined by the
Board of Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 1060-2000,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on October 23, 2000, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby directed to sell certain City-owned property no longer
needed for public use, described
therein and located on North Park
Boulevard in the City of Shaker
Heights, also known as a portion of
Permanent Parcel Number 733-10-014,
to Barry J. Minoff. The consideration to be paid for said property is
hereby fixed at Eighty Thousand
Dollars ($80,000.00), which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland is
hereby requested to execute and
deliver the official deed of the City
of Cleveland conveying said property which document shall contain
such additional terms and conditions
as the Director of Law shall deem
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 767-00.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1976-99, passed
December 13, 1999, by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized by and at the direction
of the Board of Control to sell certain City-owned property, no longer
needed for public use, described
therein and located at 2201 West
93rd Street, Permanent Parcel Numbers 005-29-001 and 045, aka the for-

November 15, 2000
mer West Technical High School, to
West Tech LLC for the development
of housing; and
Whereas,
said
Ordinance
No.
1976-99, provided that the consideration to be paid for the property
shall be at a price not less than the
fair market value as determined by
the Board of Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 1976-99,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on December 13, 1999, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby directed to sell certain City-owned property, no longer
needed for public use, described
therein and located at 2201 West
93rd Street, Permanent Parcel Numbers 005-29-001 and 045, aka the former West Technical High School, to
West Tech LLC for the development
of housing. The consideration to be
paid for said property is hereby
fixed at One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00), which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair reuse value.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland is
hereby requested to execute and
deliver the official deed of the City
of Cleveland conveying said property.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 768-00.
By Director Brooks.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on November 1, 2000
for
computer
related
hardware
equipment (Part IV, item 13) for the
various divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 362-2000, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland on April 17,
2000, be and the same are hereby
rejected.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 769-00.
By Director Brooks.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Erie Shores Computer, Inc. for an
estimated
quantity
of
computer
related hardware equipment (Part
1) for the various divisions of City
Government, Department of Finance,
for a period of six (6) months beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on November 1,
2000, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 362-2000, passed April
17, 2000, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Two Hundred Eighty-One Thousand
Eight
Hundred
Twenty-Five
&
00/100 Dollars ($281,825.00) (Net), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Finance
is
hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or

The City Record
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. RE-23014
which shall be certified against
such contract in the total sum of
Fourteen Thousand Six Hundred
Fourteen
and
00/100
Dollars
($14,614.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 770-00.
By Director Brooks.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Dell Marketing L.P. for an estimated quantity of computer related
hardware equipment (Parts II, III
and Part IV items 1-12 and 14-44) for
the various divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, for
a period of six (6) months beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on November 1,
2000, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 362-2000, passed April
17, 2000, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Two Hundred Thirty-Eight Thousand Nine Hundred Ninety-Nine and
53/100 Dollars ($238,999.53) (Net), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Finance
is
hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. RE-23013
which shall be certified against
such contract in the total sum of
Seventeen Thousand One Hundred
Twenty-Two
and
70/100
Dollars
($17,122.70).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 771-00.
By Director Konicek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1071-93, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on June 7, 1993, and Resolution
No. 469-98, adopted by the Board of
Control on June 24, 1998, the City,
through its Director of Public Utili-

2813

33
ties, entered into an agreement with
SCT Utility Systems, Inc. (“Consultant”) Contract No. 53157, for professional
services
necessary
to
implement a customer information
system for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities; and
Whereas, the City desires to modify the scope of the implementation
of the customer information system
to include mandated system updates
and additional staff support to complete the project; and
Whereas, Consultant has proposed
by its letter dated August 25, 2000,
to provide such additional services
for
an
amount
not
to
exceed
$381,490.02; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Public Utilities is
hereby authorized to enter into a
modification to Contract No. 53157
with SCT Utility Systems, Inc. for
the additional implementation services required to complete Cleveland
Public Power’s customer information system on the basis of the Consultant’s August 25, 2000 proposal.
The compensation for such additional services shall not exceed a
total
of
$381,490.02,
thereby
increasing
the
total
compensation
payable under Contract No. 53157 to
$2,495,490.02. The modification authorized hereby shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall include
such additional provisions as said
Director deems necessary to benefit
and protect the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Carter, Brooks,
Konicek, Acting Director Williams,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Harrison, Directors Guzman, Jackson, Hudecek, Patterson, Warren,
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ANNE BLOOMBERG,
President

The City Record

34
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2000
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 00-303: 4239 Archwood
Avenue, Appeal of Osvaldo Luva
(Ward 15)
Osvaldo Luva appeals under Section 76-6 and the Charter of the
City of Cleveland, and under Section 161.05 of the Codified Ordinances from being denied a Certificate
of
Appropriateness
on
August 10, 2000 for the installation
of vinyl siding to the property at
4239 Archwood Avenue, by the
Cleveland Landmarks Commission
upon the recommendation of Director Hunter Morrison, City Planning
Commission.
Calendar No. 00-308: 2862 Martin
Luther King Boulevard a.k.a.
2856 MLK Boulevard (Ward 4)
Full Gospel Church, owner, and
Great Lakes Fence, agent, appeal
to install 600 linear feet of 5' high
ornamental fencing to the north
and east of an approximate 359' x
198' corner parcel located in a TwoFamily District on the southwest
corner of Buckeye Road and Martin
Luther King Drive at 2862 Martin
Luther King Drive; said installation being contrary to the Yards
and Courts Requirements where the
height of fencing proposed in the
front setback area is 5' and 4'-6"
is allowed as stated in Section
357.13(b)(3) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 00-309: 16013 Seville
Road (Ward 1)
Jaylin Development Corporation,
owners,
c/o
Charles
Chudakoff,
appeal to construct a 40' x 175' onestory, split-faced block and metal
truck parts building on an approximate 288' x 402' parcel located in
a Semi-Industry District on the
north side of Seville Road at 16013
Seville
Road;
said
construction
being contrary to the Industrial District
Regulations
of
Section
345.03(b) where an auto or truck
repair in a Semi-Industry District
must be located 100' away from a
Residential District line and the
center line of Seville Road is the
residential line and is 30' away and
contrary to the Off-Street Parking
and Loading Requirements where 9
parking spaces are provided and 14
are required as stated in Section
349.04(g)
of the
Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 00-311: 4682 Broadale
Road (Ward 15)
Petros and Samrong Avgerinos,
owners, appeal under authority of
Sections
329.01(e)
and
329.02(d)
from a Warning Notice issued on
September 5, 2000 by the Division of
Building and Housing, Commissioner Robert Vilkas, regarding the
property at 4682 Broadale Road
where a wall fence or hedge of the
side lot of an adjoining residential
premises shall not exceed 6' nor
more
than
the
least
distance
between such wall, fence or hedge
and an existing or potential main
building on an adjoining lot as stated in Section 337.23(6) of the Codified Ordinances.

Calendar No. 00-337: 775 East 152nd
Street (Ward 11)
North Point Properties, Inc., owners, and Volunteers of America of
Northeast and North Central Ohio,
Inc., prospective purchasers c/o of
Dennis J. Kresak, agent, appeal to
change the use of an existing 133'
x 191' irregular shaped day care
building into a transitional housing
facility that will provide 50 beds for
homeless veterans situated on a 150'
x 333' corner parcel located in a
Local Retail and Two-Family District on the north side of Aspinwall
Avenue between East 152nd and
East 154th Streets at 775 East 152nd
Street; said change of use being contrary to the Residential District
Requirements of Section 337.03(a)
where transient housing or rooming
house is not permitted in a TwoFamily
District
and
Section
337.08(c) where transient housing or
rooming house is first permitted in
a Multi-Family District and contrary
to the Area Requirements where the
gross floor area of a building shall
not exceed one-half of the total lot
area and the total lot area is 49,950
sq. ft. and one-half of the total lot
area is 24,975 sq. ft. and 30,000 sq.
ft. of floor area is proposed as stated in Section 355.04 of the Codified
Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2000
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, November 13, 2000, the following appeals
were heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 00-283: 2128 West 5th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited
Partnership, owner, c/o Keith Sutton, appealed to erect a three-story
one family dwelling house and a
detached garage on a 104' x 134' lot
in a B-Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 00-284: 2142 West 5th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited
Partnership, owner, c/o Keith Sutton, appealed to erect a three-story
one family dwelling house and a
detached garage on a 25' x 100' lot
in a B-Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 00-285: 2158 West 5th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited
Partnership, owner, c/o Keith Sutton, appealed to erect a three-story
one family dwelling house on a 25'
x 100' lot in a B-Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 00-286: 2162 West 5th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited
Partnership, owner, c/o Keith Sutton, appealed to erect a three-story
one family dwelling house and a
detached private garage on a 25' x
100' parcel in a B-Multi-Family District.

2814

November 15, 2000
Calendar No. 00-287: 2192 West 6th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited
Partnership, owner, c/o Keith Sutton, appealed to erect a three-story
two family dwelling house and a
detached private garage on a 25' x
100' corner lot in a B-Multi-Family
District.
Calendar No. 00-288: 2203 West 6th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited
Partnership, owner, c/o Keith Sutton, appealed to erect a three-story
two family dwelling house and a
detached private garage on a 25' x
100' corner lot in a B-Multi-Family
District.
Calendar No. 00-289: 519 Literary
Road
Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited
Partnership, owner, c/o Keith Sutton, appealed to erect a three-story
two family dwelling house and a
detached private garage on a 25' x
116' lot in a B-Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 00-305: 3757-3771 West
143rd Street
PPG Industries Inc., owner, and
Borchert Fencing Company, agent,
appealed to install 292 linear feet of
6' high tubular ornamental fencing
to the west and 361 linear feet of 6'
high chain link fencing to the north
of a parking lot in split zoning
between General and Semi-industry
Districts.
Calendar No. 00-306: 3800 West 143rd
Street
PPG Industries Inc., owner, and
Borchert Fencing Company, agent,
appealed to install 210 linear feet of
6' high tubular ornamental fencing
to the west of a parking lot in a
Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 00-307: 3779-3791 West
143rd Street
PPG Industries Inc., owners, and
Borchert Fencing company, agent,
appealed to install 239 linear feet of
6' high tubular ornamental fencing
to the west and 165 linear feet of 6'
high chain link fencing to the south
and east of a parking lot in split
zoning between General and SemiIndustry Districts.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 00-275: 3304 Henninger
Road
B & L Development, owner, and
Rockport Construction and Materials, Inc., tenant, c/o Janet Leslie,
appealed to use existing acreage
located in One-Family, Semi-Industry and General Industry Districts
for storage of soil, stone, construction material and vehicles.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 00-278: 2222-2298 Clarkwood Road
Charles C. Pearson, owner, and
Robert
M.
Lustig,
guardian
of
Charles C. Pearson, appealed from a
Notice of Violation issued June 29,
2000 by the Division of Building and
Housing, Community Development
Department.
The following appeals were Postponed:
None.

The City Record

November 15, 2000
On Monday, November 13, 2000, in
Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
on Monday, November 6, 2000 and
said decisions were approved and
adopted by the Board on November
13, 2000.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 00-268: 2189 West 6th
Street
Bridge Avenue Development Ltd.,
owners, appealed to construct a 19'
x
40'
three-story
one
family
dwelling unit and a 20' x 20'
detached garage on a 25' x 100' parcel in a B-1-Multi-Family.
Calendar No. 00-269: 2193 West 6th
Street
Bridge Avenue Development Ltd.,
owners, appealed to construct a 19'
x
40'
three-story
one
family
dwelling unit and a 20' x 20'
detached garage on a 25' x 100' parcel in a B-1-Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 00-270: 2199 West 6th
Street
Bridge Avenue Development Ltd.,
owners, appealed to construct a 19'
x
40'
three-story
one
family
dwelling unit and a 20' x 20'
detached garage on a 25' x 100' parcel in a B-1-Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 00-271: 613 Literary
Avenue
Bridge Avenue Development Ltd.,
owners, appealed to construct a 19'
x
40'
three-story
one
family
dwelling unit and a 20' x 20'
detached garage on a 25' x 100' parcel in a B-1-Multi-Family District.
The
following
Denied:

appeals

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
October 25, 2000
The following Docket was heard
on October 25, 2000 and inadvertently omitted from The City Record
dated November 8, 2000.
*

*

*

Docket A-166-00.
RE: Appeal of Pioneer Manufacturing Company, Owner of the Proposed 15,655 sq. ft. One Story Building Addition located on the premises known as 4529 Industrial Parkway
from
a
ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated October 13, 2000, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit the building to be constructed with a zero fire
wall rating on the addition at the
rear property line, with the provision
that the fence be moved out to the
property line to allow the Fire
Department equipment access to the
full perimeter of the building. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

were

Calendar No. 00-291: Appeal of John
E. Tsambounieries
John E. Tsambounieries appealed
from the refusal to issue a Peddlers
Temporary Sidewalk Permit for the
location at East 89th and Euclid
Avenue.
Calendar No. 00-292: Appeal of John
E. Tsambounieries
John E. Tsambounieries appealed
from the refusal to issue a Peddlers
Temporary Sidewalk Permit for the
location at East 100th between
Euclid and Carnegie Avenues.
Calendar No. 00-296: 4033 West 157th
Street
John Kimble, owner, and Craig L.
Madsen, agent, appealed to remove
an existing 4' x 5' front porch of a
one family dwelling and to replace
it with a 15' x 10' open front porch
in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 00-319: Appeal of John
L. Dimarhos, d.b.a. Johnny’s Hot
Dogs
John L. Dimarhos, d.b.a. Johnny’s
Hot Dogs appealed from the refusal
of a Peddlers Temporary Sidewalk
Permit for the area at Wade Oval
near Jeptha Drive.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

Re: Report of the Meeting of
November 8, 2000
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-40-00.
RE: Appeal of GMS Management
Co., Inc. & Stuart J. Graines, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 2720 Van Aken
Boulevard from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION/ELECTRICAL of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing dated March 1,
2000, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
No action this date; the docket
will be rescheduled for November 22,
2000.
*

*

*

Docket A-118-00.
RE: Appeal of Ronald Davis,
Owner of the One Story Masonry
Property located on the premises
known as 5456 Lake CT. from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE of the Commis-

2815

35
sioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated June 12, 2000,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
No action required by the Board;
the docket will be dismissed, noting
that the appellant should file an
appeal with the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
*

*

*

Docket A-123-00.
RE: Appeal of Ronald Davis,
Owner of the One Story Masonry
Property located on the premises
known as 5447 Lake CT. from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated June 12, 2000,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
No action required by the Board;
the docket will be dismissed, noting
that the appellant should file an
appeal with the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
*

*

*

Docket A-124-00.
RE: Appeal of Ronald Davis,
Owner of the One Story Masonry
Property located on the premises
known as 5439 Lake CT. from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated June 12, 2000,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
No action required by the Board,
the docket will be dismissed, noting
that the appellant should file an
appeal with the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
*

*

*

Docket A-145-00.
RE: Appeal of Charles C. Pearson/Guardian
Robert
M.
Lustig,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 2224-2280
Clarkwood Avenue (a.k.a. 2280-98
Clarkwood Avenue) from, a 30 DAY
DETERIORATED CONDEMNATION
ORDER/MS & GARAGE/ILLEGAL
USE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated July 31, 2000, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s 30 DAY DETERIORATED CONDEMNATION ORDER/MS
& GARAGE/ILLEGAL USE and LETTER OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH
by granting the Appellant forty-five
(45) days in which to obtain permits
and abate the violations. Upon passage of this motion, this matter
shall be REMANDED at this time to
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. All other provisions of the 30
DAY DETERIORATED CONDEMNATION ORDER/MS & GARAGE
and LETTER OF INTENTION TO

The City Record

36
DEMOLISH not modified by this
decision shall remain in full force
and effect, including the provisions
that the City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by
means of demolition if abatement of
the violations is not completed by
January 6, 2001. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Bowes.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-148-00.
RE: Appeal of The First National
Bank of Chicago, Mortgagee of the
Two & One-half Story Brick Residential Property located on the
premises known as 2903 East 123rd
Street from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER/MS of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated August 04, 2000,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
Docket A-148-00 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
December 6, 2000.
*

*

*

Docket A-150-00.
RE: Appeal of Gene A. Sardon, Sr.,
Owner of the Property, located on
the premises known as 7535 Kinsman Road from a LIMITATION ON
THE PERMIT of the Commissioner
of the Division of Building and
Housing dated August 23, 2000,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant a sixty (60) day “Extension Of Time” on the permit in
which to abate the violations and
fulfill the obligations on the permit;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-151-00.
RE: Appeal of Bankers Trust Company of California N.A., Mortgagee
of the Two Story Frame Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 2837 East 122nd Street
(a.k.a. 2837-39 East 122nd Street)
from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION
ORDER/MS of the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing dated August 4, 2000, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 2837 East 122nd Street
(a.k.a. 2837-39 East 122nd Street) to
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Bowes.

Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-152-00.
RE: Appeal of Conseco Finance
Servicing Corp., Mortgagee of the
Two & One-half Story Frame Residential Property located on the
premises known as 3379 East 114th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER/MS of the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing dated August 25, 2000, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 3379 East 114th Street to
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action, noting that demolition cannot occur before thirty (30) days.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saunders
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Bowes.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-157-00.
RE: Appeal of Adelphia Foods,
Owner of the Two Story Masonry
Business/Multi-Family Property, located on the premises known as 5901
Franklin Avenue from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION/GENERAL MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing dated August 18, 2000, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
Docket A-157-00 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 22, 2000.
*

*

*

Docket A-161-00.
RE: Appeal of William Kozik,
Owner of the Commercial Property
located on the premises known as
3753
East
93rd
Street
from
a
VACATE ORDER/30 DAY DETERIORATED CONDEMNATION ORDER/MS
of the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated August 22,
2000, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
Docket A-161-00 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 22, 2000.
*

*

*

Docket A-170-00.
RE: Appeal of T-Rex Development, Inc., Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
1425 Rockwell Avenue from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER
of
the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated September 19, 2000, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to (OBBC Chapter 5, Table 503,

2816

November 15, 2000
Section 504.0, 602.1 and 602.2 pertaining to buildings #2 and #3); to
permit building #2 to be classified
as type 2B construction and not fireproof the steel of the unoccupied
fifth floor, noting that the building
is fully sprinklered and alarmed;
and to review the unoccupied former
roof walkway in building #3 to be
classified as a story and not fire
proof the steel and classified as
type 2C construction, noting that the
walkway will be lightly used or not
used at all. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-173-00.
RE: Appeal of West Sixth Group,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 1276 West
6th Street from a NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and
Housing dated October 13, 2000,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to (Item 13109.12(b)91) and
permit the awning to be erected and
constructed as indicated. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan
and seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-174-00.
RE: Appeal of Arlene Stevar,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 1924 Euclid
Avenue from a NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and
Housing dated October 20, 2000,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the 12’ foot requirement
(3109.12(b)91)
and
permit
the
canopy to remain as it is 14’ high.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-175-00.
RE: Appeal of Mentor Square Management, Owner, and Alan Silverman, Tenant of the Property located on the premises known as 6501
Harvard Avenue from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated October 4, 2000,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to (OBBC Section
1014.9 and Section 101412) and permit
the stair to be installed with a protective canopy, with the stipulation
that the owner and tenant submit a
letter stating that they will maintain

The City Record

November 15, 2000
the stair free of debris, ice and snow;
and that the stair will be installed
with an open tread system. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders
and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

Docket A-183-00.
RE: Appeal of Edward E. Hulesch,
Owner of the Proposed Restaurant
located on the premises known as
9801 Denison Avenue from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated November 2,
2000, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to (OBBC 2909.2 separate facilities) and permit one (1) ADA unisex toilet to be installed for an occupant load of 34. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bowes and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bowes,
Williams, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays:
None.

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders.
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bowes and seconded by Mr. Sullivan, for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC):
October 25, 2000
Yeas: Denk, Williams, Saunders,
Sullivan. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Bowes.
JOSEPH F. DENK,
CHAIRMAN

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
*

*

*

Docket A-184-00.
RE: Appeal of Ohio Savings Management, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
1801 East 9th Street from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated November 2,
2000, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance (OBBC Section 1011.4.2) and
permit the four automatic sprinkler
devices, two on either side of the
glass wall, to be installed as indicated on the drawings. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and
seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Williams, for Approval and Adoption of the Resolutions as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
L-19-00—Alonza P. Yoney.
L-20-00—James Armstrong.
A-135-00—Richard J. Brincka.
A-149-00—National City Mortgage
Co.
A-153-00—Bridge Avenue Development, Ltd.
A-154-00—Bridge Avenue Development, Ltd.
A-155-00—Bridge Avenue Development, Ltd.
A-156-00—Bridge Avenue Development, Ltd.
A-166-00—Pioneer
Manufacturing
Company.
A-171-00—Cleveland
Municipal
School District.

NONE

37
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2000
Installation of New Emission Exhaust Systems at Various City
Fire Stations, for the Department
of Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 927-2000.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) CERTIFIED CHECK OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL
BE
REQUIRED FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE DEPOSIT WILL BE REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN
FIFTEEN
(15) DAYS
AFTER THE BID OPENING DATE.
Office Supplies, for the various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2000, 10:00 A.M. IN ROOM
517 OF CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
ATTENDANCE IS MANDATORY.
Two (2) X-Ray Fluorescent Lead
Analyzers, for the Department of
Community
Development,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 12102000, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, August 7, 2000.
November 8, 2000 and November 15, 2000
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2000

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations
made
on
these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”

2817

Flooring for the Halloran Park Skating Facility, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 174899, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 17, 2000.
Gerber Edge Computer System with
Upgrades, for the Division of Traffic Engineering, Department of
Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1005-2000, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, July 17, 2000.
Service and Maintenance of Elevators, for the Department of Public
Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 834-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 12, 2000.
Electronic Risk Analysis Management System, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No.
1656-99, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, December
14, 2000.
Pneumococcal Vaccine, for the Division of Health, Department of
Public Health, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 646-2000, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 12, 2000.
November 8, 2000 and November 15, 2000
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2000
Snyder Avenue Area Sewer Replacement, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 2157-99.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) CERTIFIED CHECK OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL
BE
REQUIRED FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE DEPOSIT WILL BE RE-

The City Record

38
FUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN
FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER THE BID OPENING DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER
20, 2000, AT THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
12302 KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
Maintenance and Repair of Elevators, for the Department of Public
Health, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1683-2000.
November 8, 2000 and November 15, 2000
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2000
Biological and Chemical Testing
Supplies, Apparatus and Appurtenances — Item 1 (Secondary Turbidity Standards), for the Division
of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.28 of the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland, 1976.
One Hammer Truck Flatbed Body,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 904-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
August 7, 2000.
Five (5) Dump Bodies, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1058-99, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 14,
1999.
One (1) Cab and Chassis with 30'
Aerial
Tower
Platform/Utility
Line Construction Body, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 904-2000, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland,
August 7, 2000.

Request for Qualifications (RFQ)

Request for Qualifications (RFQ)

The City of Cleveland is requesting qualifications from noise monitoring firms interested in providing
professional services for the implementation of the Residential Sound
Insulation Program. The program
involves modification of structures
surrounding
Cleveland
Hopkins
International Airport. The primary
role of the selected consultant will
be to measure interior sound levels
in the project residences prior to
construction and post construction.
Sealed responses to Request for
Qualifications will be received by
the Department of Port Control,
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Cleveland, Ohio 44135-3193
until 4:00 p.m. local time November
27, 2000.
Request for Qualifications documents may be obtained on or after
November 3, 2000 at the Department
of Port Control, Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44135-3193.
Pre-Qualification Meeting:
Wednesday, November 15, 2000
at 8:30 a.m.
Department of Port Control
Main Conference Room, 2nd Floor
5300 Riverside Drive
Cleveland, Ohio 44135
Interviews: Optional
The City of Cleveland reserves the
right to accept or reject any or all
submissions and waive any informality or irregularities in any qualifications should the City consider
this to be in its best interest.
Request for Qualifications may
not be withdrawn for a period of 90
days after submittal.

The City of Cleveland is requesting qualifications from Architectural/Engineering firms interested in
providing professional services for
the implementation of the Residential Sound Insulation Program. The
program involves modification of
structures
surrounding
Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport. The
primary role of the selected consultant will be to provide treatment
recommendations, design and construction phase services for the specific purpose of reduction of noise
levels inside these structures.
Sealed responses to Request for
Qualifications will be received by
the Department of Port Control,
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Cleveland, Ohio 44135-3193
until 4:00 p.m. local time November
21, 2000.
Request for Qualifications documents may be obtained on or after
November 3, 2000 at the Department
of Port Control, Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44135-3193.
The City of Cleveland reserves the
right to accept or reject any or all
submissions and waive any informality or irregularities in any qualifications should the City consider
this to be in its best interest.
Request for Qualifications may
not be withdrawn for a period of 90
days after submittal.

Request for Qualifications (RFQ)

Denise Hale, M-F 8 A.M. to 5 P.M.
(216) 676-9699 x 103
(216) 676-9778 (fax)
November 8, 2000 and November 15, 2000

November 8, 2000 and November 15, 2000

Request for Qualifications (RFQ):
WBS No. M246 — Electrical Vaults
5 and 7 Project
Interested firms may obtain Qualification Packages beginning November 10, 2000 by going to:
www.clevelandairport.com
Submit Questions (prior to the PreQualification meeting) via the website or e-mail at:
proposal@clevelandairport.com
SUBMITTAL DUE DATE:
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2000
AT 12:00 O’CLOCK NOON
PRE-QUALIFICATION MEETING:
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2000
10:00 a.m.
Program Management
Team Office
19501 Five Points Road
Cleveland, Ohio 44135
For Further Information Contact:

November 8, 2000 and November 15, 2000
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2000

November 8, 2000 and November 15, 2000

The City of Cleveland is requesting qualifications from Architectural/Engineering firms interested in
providing professional services for
the implementation of the Residential Sound Insulation Program. The
program involves modification of
structures
surrounding
Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport. The
primary role of the selected consultant will be to provide treatment
recommendations, design and construction phase services for the specific purpose of reduction of noise
levels inside these structures.
Sealed responses to Request for
Qualifications will be received by
the Department of Port Control,
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Cleveland, Ohio 44135-3193
until 4:00 p.m. local time November
21, 2000.
Request for Qualifications documents may be obtained on or after
November 3, 2000 at the Department
of Port Control, Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44135-3193.
Pre-Qualification Meeting:
Wednesday, November 15, 2000
at 2:00 p.m.
Location: TBA
Interviews: December 1, 2000
The City of Cleveland reserves the
right to accept or reject any or all
submissions and waive any informality or irregularities in any qualifications should the City consider
this to be in its best interest.
Request for Qualifications may
not be withdrawn for a period of 90
days after submittal.

November 8, 2000 and November 15, 2000

November 15, 2000

2818

Chevrolet
Medium
Duty
Truck
Parts, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 270-2000, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 1, 2000.
Various
Automotive
and
Truck
Parts, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1264-99, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, August 11, 1999.
Purchase
of
AutoCADSoftware,
Installation, Support and Training, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1833-96, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, December 2, 1996.
November 15, 2000 and November 22, 2000
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2000
Nottingham
Filter
Rehabilitation
Project, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 8182000, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, October 9, 2000.
A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE OF ONE
HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK,
BANK
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. PROSPECTIVE BIDDERS
WILL RECEIVE A VOUCHER TO
PRESENT TO THE DESIGNATED PRINTER FOR BID DOCU-

The City Record

November 15, 2000
MENTS. OUT OF AREA BIDDERS
— PLEASE PROVIDE FEDERAL
EXPRESS,
UPS
OR
OTHER
ACCOUNT INFORMATION FOR
SHIPMENT.
PACKAGE/FEE
INCLUDES PLANS, TECHNICAL
SPECIFICATIONS
AND
CONTRACTUAL
REQUIREMENTS
AND ANY ADDENA.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2000, 10:00 A.M., AT
THE CARL B. STOKES PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE AVENUE, AUDITORIUM. THOUGH NOT MANDATORY,
ATTENDANCE
IS
STRONGLY
RECOMMENDED.
ALL
QUESTIONS PRIOR TO AND/OR SUBSEQUENT
TO
THE
PRE-BID
MEETING MUST BE SUBMITTED
IN WRITING VIA FACSIMILE TO
MITCHELL BROOKS IN THE
DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND
SUPPLIES (FAX 216-664-2611). A
COPY
MUST
ALSO
BE
FORWARDED TO DAVE ROSSETTI,
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT
(FAX
216-623-2683).
QUESTIONS
WILL
BE
RECEIVED
UNTIL
5:00
P.M.,
WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER
6,
2000.
PROJECT SCOPE INCLUDES, BUT
IS NOT LIMITED TO: SIX (6) OF
TWENTY-FOUR
(24)
RAPID
SAND FILTERS WILL BE REMOVED FROM SERVICE AND
RELATED EQUIPMENT DEMOLISHED.
THE
CAPACITY
OF
THE EIGHTEEN (18) REMAINING
FILTERS WILL BE INCREASED BY PROCESS AND
MECHANICAL REHABILITATION
TO
COMPENSATE
FOR
THE
FILTERS THAT ARE TO BE
REMOVED
FROM
SERVICE.
ALSO AS PART OF THIS PROJECT, ARCHITECTURAL/STRUCTURAL RENOVATION AND MODIFICATION OF THE FILTER
BUILDING,
LOW
VOLTAGE
ELECTRICAL, PIPING, VALVES
AND HVAC RENOVATION, AND
UPGRADING FILTER INSTRUMENTATION AND CONTROL IS
PLANNED.
November 15, 2000, November 22, 2000
and November 29, 2000
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 2000
Nottingham Blower Building Project, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
818-2000, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, October
9, 2000.
A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE OF ONE
HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK,
BANK
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. PROSPECTIVE BIDDERS
WILL RECEIVE A VOUCHER TO
PRESENT TO THE DESIGNATED PRINTER FOR BID DOCUMENTS. OUT OF AREA BIDDERS
— PLEASE PROVIDE FEDERAL
EXPRESS,
UPS
OR
OTHER
ACCOUNT INFORMATION FOR
SHIPMENT.
PACKAGE/FEE
INCLUDES PLANS, TECHNICAL
SPECIFICATIONS
AND
CONTRACTUAL
REQUIREMENTS
AND ANY ADDENA.

A

PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2000, 10:00 A.M., AT
THE CARL B. STOKES PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE AVENUE, AUDITORIUM. THOUGH NOT MANDATORY,
ATTENDANCE
IS
STRONGLY
RECOMMENDED.
ALL
QUESTIONS PRIOR TO AND/OR SUBSEQUENT
TO
THE
PRE-BID
MEETING MUST BE SUBMITTED
IN WRITING VIA FACSIMILE TO
MITCHELL BROOKS IN THE
DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND
SUPPLIES (FAX 216-664-2611). A
COPY
MUST
ALSO
BE
FORWARDED TO DAVE ROSSETTI,
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT
(FAX
216-623-2683).
QUESTIONS
WILL
BE
RECEIVED
UNTIL
5:00
P.M.,
WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER
6,
2000.
PROJECT SCOPE INCLUDES, BUT
IS
NOT
LIMITED
TO:
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW AIR
SCOUR
BUILDING,
BLOWER
MECHANICAL
EQUIPMENT,
VALVES AND ASSOCIATED PIPING.
CIVIL/ARCHITECTURAL
WORK AS WELL AS HVAC,
ELECTRICAL,
AND
PLUMBING/FIRE PROTECTION WILL
BE INCLUDED. ALSO AS PART
OF THIS PROJECT, A NEW
GUARDHOUSE AND SITE FENCING WILL BE CONSTRUCTED
TO ENHANCE PLANT SECURITY
CONTROL.

November 15, 2000, November 22, 2000
and November 29, 2000
Request for Proposal (RFP)
The City of Cleveland is requesting proposals from qualified historic
preservation
consultants
interested in providing professional
services for the implementation of
the Residential Sound Insulation
Program.
The program
involves
modification of structures surrounding Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. The primary role of the
selected
consultant
will
be
to
ensure compliance with Section 106
of the National Historic Preservation Act and the programmatic
agreement for the City of Cleveland’s Residential Sound Insulation
Program (RSIP).
Sealed responses to Request for
Proposals will be received by the
Department of Port Control, Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Cleveland, Ohio 44135-3192
until 4:00 p.m. local time December
11, 2000.
Request for Proposal documents
may be obtained on or after November 17, 2000 at the Department of
Port Control, Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44135-3193.
The City of Cleveland reserves the
right to accept or reject any or all
submissions and waive any informality or irregularities in any qualifications should the City consider
this to be in its best interest.
Request for Qualifications may
not be withdrawn for a period of 90
days after submittal.
November 15, 2000 and November 22, 2000

2819

39
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1730-2000.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution urging
the Cleveland Municipal School District, its Chief Executive Officer and
Mayor White to reopen Aviation
High School and to work with the
Tuskegee Airmen to utilize the
school solely for aviation training
and support services.
Whereas, Benjamin Davis High
School, also known as Aviation
High School, has not been utilized
by the Cleveland Municipal School
District since 1995 due to the school
system’s continuing financial crises;
and
Whereas,
the
99th
Fighter
Squadron,
today
known
as
the
Tuskegee Airmen, fought with distinction
during
World
War
II
through
the
Mediterranean
and
European theaters; and
Whereas, the successors of these
distinguished pilots can provide the
support and resources necessary to
restore Aviation High School as a
source
of
aviation
training
for
Cleveland school children; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that a restored Aviation
High School can be a source of valuable training and future jobs for
Cleveland’s youth; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Cleveland Municipal School District, its Chief Executive Officer and
Mayor White to reopen Aviation
High School and to work with the
Tuskegee Airmen to utilize the
school solely for aviation training
and support services.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to the
Cleveland Municipal School District,
its Chief Executive Officer and to
the members of the Board of Education
of
the
Cleveland
public
schools.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Res. No. 1979-2000.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to
11026 Lorain Avenue, and repealing
Res. No. 1324-2000 objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6
Liquor
Permit
to
11026
Lorain
Avenue by Res. No. 1324-2000 adopted by Council on July 28, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and

40
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor
Permit to 11026 Lorain Avenue, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Res. No. 1324-2000, containing
said objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal therefore.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Res. No. 1980-2000.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the stock
transfer of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 7114 St. Clair Avenue, 1st Fl.,
and
repealing
Res.
No.
75-2000
objecting to said stock transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the stock transfer of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit to 7114 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st Fl., by Res. No. 75-2000
adopted by Council on January 10,
2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
stock transfer and consents to said
stock transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
stock transfer of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit to 7114 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st Fl., be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Res. No. 752000, containing said objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate stock transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Res. No. 1981-2000.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit to
14910 Lorain Avenue, and repealing
Res. No. 1533-2000 objecting to said
transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor
Permit
to
14910
Lorain
Avenue by Res. No. 1533-2000 adopted by Council on August 28, 2000; and

The City Record
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 14910 Lorain Avenue, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Res. No. 1533-2000, containing
said objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer of ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Res. No. 1982-2000.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the issuance of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 13130 Shaker
Blvd., and repealing Res. No. 15372000 objecting to said issuance.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit
to 13130 Shaker Blvd. by Res. No.
1537-2000 adopted by Council on
August 28, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
issuance
and
consents
to
said
issuance; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
13130 Shaker Blvd., be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No.
1537-2000, containing said objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate issuance therefore.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Res. No. 1983-2000.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit to
3876 East 65th Street, 1st Fl. &
Bsmt., and repealing Res. No. 17032000 objecting to said transfer of
ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 3876 East 65th

2820

November 15, 2000
Street, 1st Fl. & Bsmt. by Res. No.
1703-2000 adopted by Council on September 25, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to 3876 East 65th Street, 1st
Fl. & Bsmt., be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Res. No. 17032000, containing said objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer of ownership
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Res. No. 1984-2000.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance a C1 Liquor Permit to 14930 Puritas Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 3274905; Jerome J. Gorczyca, DBA Puritas Shell, 14930
Puritas Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44135; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.

November 15, 2000
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 3274905 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Ord. No. 2040-99.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 173.15, 173.16, 173.17, 173.18,
173.19 and 173.65 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended and enacted by various
ordinances; and to enact said codified ordinances by enacting new
Section 173.13 and 173.14 thereof
relating to compensation for members of various City boards and commissions.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 173.15, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1298-84, passed June
11, 1984,
Sections 173.16, 173.17, 173.18 and
173.19 as amended by Ordinance No.
1759-A-76, passed January 31, 1977,
Section 173.65, as amended by
Ordinance No. 846-77, passed May 2,
1977
are hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 173.15 Civil Service Commission
The salaries of the members of
the Civil Service Commission shall
be seven thousand eight hundred
twenty dollars ($7,820.00) per annum, except that the member designated by the Commission as President shall receive additional compensation of five hundred seventyfive dollars ($575.00) per annum.
The member designated by the
Mayor as the Secretary of the Commission
shall
receive
additional
compensation in an amount to be
determined by the Mayor within the
schedule
of
compensation
established by the Council for that position.

The City Record
Section 173.16 Board of Zoning
Appeals
The salaries of the members of
the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
be seven thousand eight hundred
twenty
dollars
($7,820.00)
per
annum, except that the member
appointed by the Mayor as Chairman shall receive additional compensation of five hundred seventyfive dollars ($575.00) per annum.
Section 173.17 Board of Building
Standards and Building Appeals
(a) Each member of the Board of
Building Standards and Building
Appeals shall be compensated one
hundred forty-five dollars ($145.00)
per diem for each official Board
meeting attended. The Chairman
shall be compensated one hundred
seventy-five dollars ($175.00) per
diem for each official Board meeting attended. The alternate members shall be compensated forty-one
dollars ($41.00) per diem for each
official Board meeting attended as
an alternate, except that an alternate who is not a City resident at
the time of attending a meeting
shall not be entitled to any compensation.
(b) In no instance shall the aggregate amount paid to any member
exceed seven thousand eight hundred twenty dollars ($7,820.00) per
year, that of the Chairman nine
thousand five hundred forty-five dollars ($9,545.00) per year and that of
any alternate member exceed two
thousand four hundred fifteen dollars ($2,415.00) per year exclusive of
the compensation received when
serving in the place of a Board
member.
Section 173.18 Board of Examiners
of Electricians
Each member of the Board of
Examiners of Electricians provided
for in Section 3107.24, other than the
Chief
Electrical
Inspector,
shall
receive compensation of two hundred five dollars ($205.00) for each
official Board meeting attended,
payable monthly. In no instance
shall the aggregate amount paid
exceed four thousand eight hundred
thirty dollars ($4,830.00) per year.
The Board shall hold at least two
meetings per month.
Section 173.19 Board of Examiners
of Plumbers
Each member of the Board of
Examiners of Plumbers provided for
in Section 3107.30, other than the
Chief
Plumbing
Inspector,
shall
receive compensation of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each official
Board
meeting
attended,
payable monthly. In no instance
shall the aggregate amount paid
exceed four thousand eight hundred
thirty dollars ($4,830.00) per year.
The Board shall hold at least two
meetings per month.
Section 173.65 City Planning Commission
Each member of the City Planning Commission, except the member of Council serving thereon, shall
receive compensation of seven thousand eight hundred twenty dollars
($7,820.00)
per
annum,
payable
monthly.
Section 2. That the following
existing sections of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 173.15, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1298-84, passed June
11, 1984,

2821

41
Sections 173.16, 173.17, 173.18 and
173.19 as amended by Ordinance No.
1759-A-76, passed January 31, 1977,
Section 173.65, as amended by
Ordinance No. 846-77, passed May 2,
1977
are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That, pursuant to Charter Section 191, the salaries of any
current officer or member of a board
or commission shall not be increased
during the term for which he or she
was elected or appointed and those
current officers or members shall
continue to be paid at the rate established when they were elected or
appointed.
Section 4. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Sections 173.13 and 173.14 thereof to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 173.13 Landmarks Commission
The salaries of the members of
the Landmarks Commission shall be
six thousand five hundred dollars
($6,500.00) per annum, except that
the
member
designated
by
the
Mayor as Chairman shall receive
additional compensation of five hundred
and
seventy-five
dollars
($575.00) per annum.
Section 173.14 Community Relations Board
The salaries of the members of
the
Community
Relations
Board
shall be four thousand five hundred
dollars ($4,500.00) per annum, except
that the member designated by the
Mayor as Chairman shall receive
additional compensation of five hundred
and
seventy-five
dollars
($575.00) per annum.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Ord. No. 744-2000.
By Councilmen Dolan, Lewis and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 571.021 thereof relating
to service providers at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 571.021 thereof, to read
as follows:
Section 571.021 Service Providers
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport
All entities, including Scheduled
Airlines that provide services to
other Scheduled Airlines, other than
those airlines that are signatories,
or majority-owned subsidiaries of
signatories, to the Agreement and

42
Lease authorized by Ordinance No.
1585-A-76, passed August 16, 1976, or
signatories of a lease, lease by way
of concession or other agreement
that exempts them from such fees,
that provide services at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, including, but not limited to services
related to ground handling, cargo
handling, fueling aircraft, fueling
ground equipment, aircraft maintenance, ground vehicle maintenance,
interior and exterior aircraft cleaning, catering, deicing, and laboratory services for aircraft, shall pay
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport a fee of seven percent (7%)
of gross revenues derived from providing those services for the privilege of providing such services at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport.
The Director may, at any time,
increase or decrease the percentage
fee authorized herein, subject to
prior authorization of Cleveland
City Council.
Section 2. That the provisions of
Section 571.021 shall be in force and
effect sixty days after passage of
this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Ord. No. 1199-2000.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance to enact
Section 551.082 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976; and
amend Section 551.99 thereof, relating to scavenging of solid waste
and the penalty therefor.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 551.082 thereof to read
as follows:
Section
551.082
Scavenging
of
Solid Waste
(a) No person shall remove or
cause the removal of, pick-up, collect, sort or handle solid waste set
out on a public street or alley for
collection by the City or its contractor between the hours of 8:00
p.m. or sunset, whichever is later,
sunset and 7:00 a.m.
(b) The provisions of this section
shall not apply to an employee, contractor, or agent of the City who is
engaged in the City’s waste collection and disposal services or to the
owner of, or the person who originally discarded, the solid waste
material.
Section 2. That Section 551.99 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 221-92, passed February 8, 1993, is hereby amended to
read as follows:

The City Record
Section 551.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall
be fined twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
for the first offense and fifty dollars ($50.00) for each subsequent
offense.
(b) Whoever violates any provision of Sections 551.04, 551.081 or
551.082 shall be fined not more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00). The
above listed minor misdemeanors
may be enforced by the issuance of
a citation in compliance with Rule
4.1 of the Ohio Rules of Criminal
Procedure.
(c) Whoever violates any provision of Sections 551.18, 551.24 or
551.25 shall be fined fifty dollars
($50.00) for the first offense and one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
subsequent offense.
(d) Whoever violates any provision of Section 551.19 shall be fined
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(e) Whoever violates any provision of division (c) of Section 551.16,
Sections 551.22 or 551.31 shall be
fined two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) or imprisoned for up to
thirty days, or both, for the first
offense, and five hundred dollars
($500.00) or imprisoned for up to
sixty days, or both, for each subsequent offense.
(f) Whoever violates any provision of Sections 551.12 or 551.27 shall
be
fined
one
hundred
dollars
($100.00) for the first offense and
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
or imprisoned for up to thirty days,
or both, for each subsequent offense.
(g) Whoever violates any provision of division (b) of Section 551.26
shall be fined one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and shall be imprisoned
for not less than sixty days and not
more than six months.
(h) Whoever violates any provision of division (c) of Section 551.26
shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more
than
one
thousand
dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not
more than six months, or both.
(i) Notwithstanding any other provision of these Codified Ordinances,
no part of a penalty imposed under
this section shall in any case be suspended or otherwise reduced.
Section 3. That existing 551.99 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 221-92, passed February 8, 1993, is hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Ord. No. 1578-2000.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary for window washing services,
for the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

2822

November 15, 2000
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary for
window washing services, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 3063)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Ord. No. 1685-2000.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various on-road vehicles
and off-road equipment, including
labor and materials necessary for
vehicle rehabilitation for the various divisions of City government,
excluding various divisions of the
Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of various on-road vehicles and off-road
equipment,
including
labor
and
materials necessary for vehicle rehabilitation, excluding the Divisions
of Police, Fire, Emergency Medical

November 15, 2000
Service, and Traffic Engineering,
Department of Public Safety, as
such vehicles and equipment are
described in File No. 1685-2000-A, in
the estimated sum of $11,791,220.00,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon
a unit basis for the various divisions
of City government, excluding the
Divisions of Police, Fire, Emergency
Medical Service, and Traffic Engineering, Department of Public Safety. Bids shall be taken in such manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 1465)
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreements using state procedures.
The Director of Finance may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to effectuate
such cooperative efforts and may
enter into contract with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Ord. No. 1808-2000.
By Councilmen Robinson, Johnson, Britt, Melena, Cimperman and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to
Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-33-102 as
more fully described in Section 2
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 121-33-102
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
48 in Ingersoll Heights Subdivision
of part of Original East Cleveland
Township Lots Nos. 418 and 419 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 32 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 35
feet front on the Northerly side of
Mt. Carmel Road, S.E., and extending back 167.63 feet on the Easterly line, 172.84 feet on the Westerly
line and having a real line of 35.38
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-33-103 as
more fully described in Section 4
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 3 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 121-33-103
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
45 in Ingersol Heights Subdivision
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 418 and 419, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 32 of Maps,
Page
11
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 35 feet on the
Northeasterly side of Mt. Carmel
Road, and extending back of equal
width 105 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-16-033 as
more fully described in Section 6
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 5 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-16-033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
86 in the R. Yeakel and W.W. Orwig
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 417 and 418,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.

2823

43
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-16-035 as
more fully described in Section 8
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 7 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-16-035
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
84 in the Yeakel and Orwig Allotment of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 417 and 418, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Cumberland
Avenue,
S.E.
(formerly
Charles
Street) 132 feet, 7 inches deep on the
Westerly line, 132 feet, 1-1/2 inches
deep on the Easterly line, and 40 feet
wide in the rear, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel Nos. 126-16-053 as
more fully described in Section 10
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 9 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-16-053
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
417, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Kennedy Avenue, S.E., (50 feet
wide) distant 183.16 feet Westerly
from the Westerly line of Woodhill
Road (80 feet wide); thence Westerly along the Westerly line of
Kennedy
Avenue,
S.E.,
40
feet;
thence Northerly at right angles
with said Kennedy Avenue, S.E., 125
feet; thence Easterly parallel with
the
Northerly
line
of
Kennedy
Avenue, S.E., 40 feet; thence Southerly 125 feet to the place of beginning
and being further known as Sublot
No. 25 in Richard Morrow’s Proposed
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 417, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-16-055 as
more fully described in Section 12
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 11 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-16-055
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
417 and bounded and described as
follows:

44
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Kennedy Avenue, S.E., at a point 84
33/100 feet Easterly from the Easterly line of Yeakel and Orwig’s
Allotment, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
17 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Easterly along the Northerly
line of Kennedy Avenue, S.E., 40
feet;
thence
Northerly
at
right
angles with Kennedy Avenue, S.E.,
135 feet to an alley; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said
alley; 40 feet to a point, 84 33/100
feet Easterly from the Easterly line
of said Yeakel and Orwig’s Allotment; thence Southerly at right
angles with above described alley,
135 feet to the place of beginning,
and being further known as the
Easterly 40 feet of Sublot No. 12 in
Richard Morrow’s Proposed Subdivision, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-16-067 as
more fully described in Section 14
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 13 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-16-067
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
34 in Yeakel and Orwig’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 417 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said Sublot No. 34 has a
frontage of 40 feet on the Northerly
side of Kennedy Avenue, S.E., (formerly Kennedy Street) and extends
back between parallel lines, 135
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-16-080 as
more fully described in Section 16
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 15 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-16-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
80 in the Allotment made by R.
Yeakel and W.W. Orwig of part of
Original Newburgh Township Lots
Nos. 417 and 418, recorded in Volume
5 of Maps, Page 17 of Maps, and Subdivision
in
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Sublot No. 80 has a 40 feet
frontage on the South side of
Kennedy
Street
(formerly
Penn
Street) and extends back in a
Southerly direction between parallel
lines 130 feet to an alley, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the

The City Record
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-17-056 as
more fully described in Section 18
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 17 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-17-056
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 34 feet of the Southerly 54
feet, 2 inches of Sublot No. 124 in R.
Yeakels Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 417
and 425, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 10 of Maps, Page 25
of Cuyahoga County Records.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-17-057 as
more fully described in Section 20
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 19 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as fellows:
P. P. No. 126-17-057
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 65 feet 10 inches of Sublot
No. 124 in Reuben Yeakel’s Subdivision, of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 417 and 425, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 10 of Maps, Page 25 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Southerly side of
Cumberland
Avenue,
S.E.,
and
extending back of equal width 65
feet 10 inches along the Easterly
side of East 96 Street, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-17-063 as
more fully described in Section 22
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 21 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-17-063
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
One
Hundred
Thirty
(130)
in
Rueben Yeakel’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 417 and 425, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 10 of Maps,
Page
25
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Cumberland
Avenue,
S.E.
(Formerly
Charles
Street) and extending back between
parallel lines 120 feet deep, as
appears by said plat, excepting
therefrom a strip of 10 feet in even
width off the Westerly side of said
Sublot.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

2824

November 15, 2000
plies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-01-047 as
more fully described in Section 24
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 23 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-01-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 418 and 426 and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Hulda Avenue, S.E. (45 feet wide)
on said Southerly line 340 feet Easterly from its intersection with the
Southeasterly line of Woodhill Road,
S.E.;
thence
Southerly
at
right
angles to Hulda Avenue, S.E., 108
feet to the Northerly line of land
deeded to Waller, March 1, 1866;
thence Easterly along said line of
land deed to Waller 40 feet to a
stake; thence Northerly at right
angles to said line of land deeded
to Waller, 108 feet to the Southerly
line of Hulda Avenue, S.E.; thence
Westerly along said line of Hulda
Avenue, S.E., 40 feet to the place of
beginning, being Sublot No. 9 in
H.H. Johnson’s proposed Subdivision
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 481, 425, and 426, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning, ordinances, if any
Section 25. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-02-060 as
more fully described in Section 26
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 25 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-02-060
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
116 in the Luna Heights Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 417 and 418, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 42
of Maps, Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 35 feet front
on the Southerly side of Crestwood
Avenue, S.E., and extending back of
equal width 105 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 27. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-02-154 as
more fully described in Section 28
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 27 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-02-154
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 418 and 426 and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Hulda Avenue, S.E. (said Southerly
line being parallel to and distant
108 feet Northerly measured at right
angles from the Northerly line of

November 15, 2000
land conveyed to W.W. Waller by
deed dated March 1, 1866 and recorded in Volume 138, Page 243 of Cuyahoga County Records, at a point
1260 feet Easterly measured along
said Southerly line) from its point
of intersection with the Easterly
line of Woodhill Road, S.E.; thence
Easterly along said Southerly line
of Hulda Avenue, S.E., 40 feet;
thence Southerly on a line at right
angles to said Southerly line of
Hulda Avenue, S.E., 108 feet to said
Northerly line of land conveyed to
W.W. Waller, as aforesaid; thence
Westerly along said Northerly line
conveyed to W.W. Waller, 40 feet;
thence Northerly 108 feet to the
place of beginning, and being further known as Sublot No. 32 in
Henry H. Johnson’s proposed Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 417, 418, 425 and
426, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 29. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-06-013 as
more fully described in Section 30
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 29 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-06-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
38 in Bigelow’s Allotment of a part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 425 and 426 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 9 of Maps,
Page
15
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the Southerly side of Shale Avenue,
S.E., and extending back of equal
width, 126 feet deep, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 31. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-13-050 as
more fully described in Section 32
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 31 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-13-050
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
39 in Issac H. Marshall’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 425 and 426, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 7 of
Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 50 feet front on
the Southerly side of Stoughton
Avenue, S.E., and extending back of
equal width 136 feet, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 33. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
sell Permanent Parcel No. 128-17-004
as more fully described in Section

The City Record
34 below, to Cleveland New Homes
L.P.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 33 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-17-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and bounded and described as
follows, to wit: And known as being
Sublot No. 20 in the Johnson Realty
Company’s Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 433 and 434, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 46 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Parkview
Avenue
(formerly
Ledgewood
Avenue) and extending back of
equal width 150 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 35. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-17-070 as
more fully described in Section 36
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 36. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 35 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-17-070
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
139 in the Cleveland Realty and
Investment
Company’s
Woodland
Heights Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 433
and 434, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 56 of Maps, Page 4
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 35 feet front on the Northerly
side of Manor Avenue, and extending back of equal width 138 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 37. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-17-075 as
more fully described in Section 38
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 38. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 37 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-17-075
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
134 in Woodland Heights Subdivision of a part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 433 and 434, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 56 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga
County Records, be the same more
or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to restriction recited in
Volume 1433, place of beginning 126
of Cuyahoga County Records, filed
January 7, 1913.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 39. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

2825

45
plies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-17-083 as
more fully described in Section 40
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 40. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 39 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-17-083
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
126 in the Cleveland Realty and
Investment
Company’s
Woodland
Heights Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 433
and 434, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 56 of Maps, Page 4
of Cuyahoga County Records, as
appears by said plat.
Section 41. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-18-026 as
more fully described in Section 42
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 42. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 41 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-18-026
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
245 in Cleveland Realty Investment
Company’s Woodland Heights Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 433 and 434
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 56 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 35
feet front on the Northerly side of
Mt. Auburn Avenue, and extending
back 138.22 feet on the Westerly
line, 138.21 feet on the Easterly line,
and having a rear line of 35 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
All subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 43. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-18-028 as
more fully described in Section 44
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 44. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 43 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-18-028
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 243 and 244 in Woodland
Heights Subdivision of a part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 433 and 434, as shown by the
recorded plat or said Subdivision in
Volume 56 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
Mount Auburn, S.E., at the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot No.
243; thence Westerly along said
Northerly line of Mount Auburn
Avenue, S.E., 35 feet to the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
243; thence in a Northerly direction
about 138.37 feet to at point in the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 243
distant 5 feet Easterly (measured
along said Northerly line) from the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 243, thence Easterly along, the

46
Northerly line of said Sublot Nos. 243
and 244, 35 feet to a point distant 5
feet Easterly (measured along said
Northerly line) from the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 244;
thence in a Southerly direction
about 138.37 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 45. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-18-086 as
more fully described in Section 46
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 46. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 45 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-18-086
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
103 in the Cleveland Realty Investment Company’s Woodland Heights
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 433 and 434,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 56 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Southerly side of
Manor Avenue, and extending back
of equal width 139 feet, as appears
by said plat.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 47. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-18-097 as
more fully described in Section 48
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 48. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 47 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-18-097
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and bounded and described as
follows, to wit: And known as being
Sublot No. 114 in Woodland Heights
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 433 and 434,
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 56 of
Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County
Records, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 49. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-19-038 as
more fully described in Section 50
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 50. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 49 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-19-038
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
255 in Woodland Heights Subdivision Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 433 and 434 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 56 of
Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 35 feet front on
the Northerly side of Mount Auburn

The City Record
Avenue, S.E., and extending back
138.17 feet on the Easterly line,
138.18 on the Westerly line and having a rear line of 35 feet, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 51. Reserved.
Section 52. Reserved.
Section 53. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 129-14-050 as
more fully described in Section 54
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 54. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 53 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 129-14-050
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
428, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 119th Street (formerly Jefferson Street, 50 feet wide), at a point
796 59/100 feet Northerly, measured
along said Westerly line of East
119th Street, from its point of intersection with the Northerly line of
Buckeye Road, S.E., (formerly South
Woodland Road); thence Westerly
parallel with the Northerly line of
land conveyed to Joseph Halle and
Joshua E. Hall, by Deed dated April
6, 1872 and recorded in Volume 201,
Page
178
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, 116 feet; thence Northerly
on a line parallel with the Westerly line of East 119th Street, 40 feet;
thence Easterly parallel with the
Northerly line of land so conveyed
to Halle and Hall, 116 feet to said
Westerly line of East 119th Street;
thence Southerly along said Westerly line of East 119th Street, 40 feet
to the place of beginning, and being
further known as Sublot No. 129 in
the South Woodland Rice Avenue
Proposed Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 428
and 429, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 55. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 129-19-113 as
more fully described in Section 56
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 56. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 55 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 129-19-113
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
18 in the L.H. Wain Company’s Rice
Heights Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 428,
429 and 437 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 45 of Maps, Page
8 of Cuyahoga County Records, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 57. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell

2826

November 15, 2000
Permanent Parcel No. 129-23-087 as
more fully described in Section 58
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 58. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 57 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 129-23-087
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 153, 154 and 155 in the
L.W. Wain Land Company’s Rice
Heights Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 428
and 429, 436 and 437, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 45 of
Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
Griffing Avenue, S.W., (50 feet
wide) at a point of intersection with
the Westerly line of East 123rd
Street
(50
feet
wide);
thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
East 123rd Street 80 feet to a point;
thence Westerly parallel with the
Northerly line of Sublot No. Sublot
Nos. 153, 154 and 155 in said Allotment 70.24 feet to a point; thence
Southerly parallel with the Westerly line of said Sublot No. 153 in said
Allotment 80 feet to a point in the
Northerly line of Griffing Avenue,
S.E.; thence Easterly along said
Northerly line of Griffing Avenue,
S.E., 70.80 feet to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 59. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 129-30-069 as
more fully described in Section 60
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 60. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 59 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 129-30-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
68 in the Lorenz-Sanda Subdivision
No. 2 of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 437 and 438 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 47 of Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 35
feet front on the Southerly side of
Lorenzo Avenue, S.E., and extending
back of equal width 113 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 61. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 129-23-083 as
more fully described in Section 62
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 62. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 61 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 129-23-083
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
117 in the Henry Prochask and
Frank Kysela Rice Avenue Allotment of part of Original One Hun-

November 15, 2000
dred Acre Lot No. 436, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 39 of
Maps, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 35 feet front on
the
Southerly
side
of
Griffing
Avenue, S.E. (50 feet wide), and
extending back 122.97 feet on the
Easterly line, 123.28 feet on the
Westerly line and being 35.01 feet
side in the rear, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 63. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 130-07-084 as
more fully described in Section 64
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 64. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 63 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 130-07-084
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 15 feet of Sublot No. 33
and the Southerly 20 feet to Sublot
No. 34 in the Kinsman Heights
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 446, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Allotment in Volume 44 of Maps, Page 26
of Cuyahoga County Records, said
parcel of land has a frontage of 35
feet on the Westerly side of East
132nd Street and a rear line of 35
feet as appears by said plat and
extends back about 105.41 feet on
the Southerly line, and about 105.38
feet
on
the
Northerly
line,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 65. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 130-08-127 as
more fully described in Section 66
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 66. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 65 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 130-08-127
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
181
in
Walton
Brothers’
Mount
Pleasant Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 445,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 14 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 130th Street (formerly Germania Avenue), and extending back of
equal width 150 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 67. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-20-073 as
more fully described in Section 68
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 68. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 67 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-20-073
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

The City Record
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
141 in the Helper Woodland Hills
Park Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 433 and
434, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 42 of Maps, Page 26 and
27 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Southerly
side of Dickens Avenue S.E., (formerly Earlington Avenue, S.E.) and
extending back of equal width 130
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 69. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-03-114 as
more fully described in Section 70
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 70. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 69 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-03-114
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
26 in Barbara and A. Stastny’s Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 419, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 32
of Maps, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40.40 feet
front on the Westerly side of East
111th Street, and extending back 125
feet on the Northerly line, 125 feet
on the Southerly line, and having a
rear line of 40.37 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 71. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-17-055 as
more fully described in Section 72
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 72. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 71 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-17-055
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Subdivision Nos. 123 and 124 in H.
Yeakels Subdivision of a part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 417 and 425 in said City, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 96th Street, (formerly Orwig
Street) and 99 feet 6 inches distant
North from the corner of Yeakel
Street,
S.E.,
(formerly
Yeakel
Avenue) and said East 96th Street,
thence East and parallel with said
Yeakel Avenue, S.E., to the East line
of Sublot Nos. 123 and 124, 40 feet;
thence North and along the Easterly line of said Sublot Nos. 123 and
124, 36 feet 6 inches; thence West
and parallel with the South line of
Cumberland Avenue, S.E., (formerly
Cumberland Street) to the East line
of said East 96th Street 40 feet;
thence South and along the Easterly line of said East 96”’ Street, 36
feet 6 inches to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.

2827

47
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 73. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-03-073 as
more fully described in Section 74
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 74. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 73 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-03-073
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
65 in Albert and Mary Statney’s
Allotment of a part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 419 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 32
of Maps, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 75. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-16-032 as
more fully described in Section 76
below, to Cleveland New Homes L.P.
Section 76. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 75 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-16-032
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 87, all in the Yeakel and
Orwig Subdivision of part of Original Township Lot No. 417 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said Sublot has a frontage
of 40.00 feet on Cumberland as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 77. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 78. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 79. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.

48
Section 80. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Ord. No. 1973-2000.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Turkey Trot Race on
November 23, 2000, sponsored by
Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Turkey Trot Race
sponsored by Hermes Race Systems
on November 23, 2000, beginning
with a 1 mile fun walk starting
inside Burke Lakefront Airport Driveway, exits the entrance driveway
and proceeds eastbound on the North
Marginal to just before the curve
and turns around to go westbound
on the North Marginal where it reenters where it came out. The 5K
run steps off from airport driveway
and leaves through the entrance
drive proceeding westbound on the
North
Marginal
down
Erieside
around the stadium, southbound on
W. 3rd Rd. to Lakeside, westbound
on Lakeside down under the bridge
to W. 9th where it turns onto Front
Street and goes to W. 10th, turning
southbound to St. Clair, runners turn
up the St. Clair hill and proceed
eastbound on St. Clair to W. 3rd
where they turn northbound onto W.
3rd and go to Lakeside where they
turn eastbound and go down Lakeside to E. 9th, runners turn northbound onto E. 9th, staying in the
west curb lane and go to the exit
ramp (curb lane-coned off) and
wrap around the Amtrak Station
and then proceed eastbound on to
the South Marginal. At E. 26th, they
cross over the freeway and then proceed westbound onto the North Marginal where they finish inside the
Airport, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the

The City Record
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Ord. No. 1974-2000.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Second Amendment to
the Agreement with Colliers Intl. for
the management and maintenance
of the Consolidated Rental Car
Facility.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 412-99, passed May 24, 1999, the
Director of Port Control entered into
an agreement with Colliers Intl. to
manage and maintain the Consolidated Rental Car Facility near
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1306-2000, passed August 7, 2000,
the Director of Port Control entered
into a First Amendment with Colliers Intl. to manage and maintain
the Consolidated Rental Car Facility near Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and
Whereas, such First Amendment
expires October 30, 2000; and
Whereas, Council and Port Control
desire to extend the agreement until
November 30, 2000; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Second Amendment to the
Agreement with Colliers Intl. for the
management and maintenance of
the Consolidated Rental Care Facility to extend the term thereof to
November 30, 2000. All other terms
and conditions of the agreement
shall remain unchanged.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Ord. No. 1975-2000.
By Councilman Dolan.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend the title and Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 1819-2000 passed October 16, 2000, relating to permits for
utility poles
for the period of
November 30, 2000 to January 3,
2001, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

2828

November 15, 2000
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1819-2000
passed October 16, 2000 are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
Authorizing
and
directing
the
Director of Public Service to issue a
permit to Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation to hang 19 Holiday Wreath Decorations on C.P.P.
utility poles (by separate permission), and 24 Holiday Wreath Decorations on First Energy utility poles
(by separate permission) on Lorain
Avenue between Rocky River Drive
and West 165th Street, for the period of November 30, 2000 to January
3, 2001, inclusive, celebrating the
holiday season.
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation, 17407
Lorain Avenue, Suite 207, Cleveland,
Ohio 44111-4022, to install, use and
maintain
nineteen
(19)
Holiday
Wreath Decorations to be hung on
Cleveland
Public
Power
utility
poles, (by separate permission), and
twenty-four (24) Holiday Wreath
Decorations to be hung on First
Energy utility poles (by separate
permission), celebrating the holiday
season for the period of November
30, 2000 to January 3, 2001, inclusive,
and which Holiday Wreath Decorations are to be hung at the following pole locations and on the following pole numbers: C.P.P. poles:
at LORAIN AVENUE – NORTH
SIDE: 1st pole E. of Rocky River
Drive, Pole #ET-14-2; 3rd Pole E. of
Rocky River Drive, Pole #ET-14-4;
@ Goodwill Store, Pole #ET 14-6; @
Kathleen’s, Pole #ET-14-8; Opposite
U- Haul entrance drive, Pole #ET
14-10; @ Nationwide, Pole #ET-14-12;
LORAIN AVENUE – NORTH SIDE:
1st Pole W. of West Park Road, Pole
#ET-14-33; 3rd Pole E. of Triskett
Road, Pole #ET-14-37; NW Corner of
Warren Road, Pole #ET-14-47; 2nd
Pole W. of W. 140th Street, Pole
#ET-13-27;
LORAIN
AVENUE
–
SOUTH SIDE: SW Corner of Rocky
River Drive, Pole #ET-31-1; 2nd Pole
E. of Rocky River Drive, Pole #ET31-2; @ Hastings Home, Pole #ET31-4; @ Walgreen’s, Pole #ET-31-6;
SW Corner of West 168th Street,
Pole #ET-31-8; 1st Pole W. of U-Haul
entrance drive, Pole #ET-31-10; @ UHaul sign, Pole #ET-31-11; SW Corner of West 165th Street, Pole #ET31-13; SW Corner of West 150th
Street, Pole #ET-31-44; and First
Energy poles: at LORAIN AVENUE:
Pole #530186; Pole #528911; Pole
#NPN at W. 179th Street, west; Pole
#NPN at W. 179th Street, east; Pole
#625904; Pole #625905; Pole #625906;
Pole # NPN at W. 176th Street, SW;
Pole # 314860; Pole # 642897; Pole
#542898; Pole #542899; Pole #301777;
Pole # NPN at Shell northeast entry;
Pole #NPN at west of YMCA drive;
Pole #NPN at east of YMCA drive;
Pole #NPN at Lorain and W. 150th
Street, NE Corner; Pole #NPN at
Lorain and W. 150th Street, traffic
signal pole; Pole #397785; Pole
#203462; Pole #NPN at Lorain and

November 15, 2000
W.
140th,
SW
Corner;
ROCKY
RIVER DRIVE: Pole #518400; Pole
#518401; Pole #NPN across from
Pole #518401; Pole #537656, and
which Holiday Wreaths locations
shall be approved by the Director of
Public Service in consultation with
the Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a wreath
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed
or permitted on said Wreaths, and
said Wreaths shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 18192000 passed October 16, 2000 are
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

Ord. No. 1976-2000.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1771-2000,
passed October 9, 2000, relating to a
grant agreement with the Hough
Area Partners In Progress (HAPP)
in order to carry out the public purpose of supporting the operations of
a neighborhood based community
development organization through
the use of Ward 7 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Section 2 of
Ordinance No. 1771-2000, passed October 9, 2000, is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
agreement shall be for services
rendered by the grantee from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2000,
and shall be in an amount not to
exceed Eight Thousand ($8,000)
and shall be paid from Fund No. 10
SF 166.
Section 2. That the existing Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1771-2000,
passed October 9, 2000 is hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1977-2000.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the President of Council to enter
into an agreement with the Musical
Arts Association to pay for certain
costs associated with the 2001 Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the President of
Council is authorized to enter into
an agreement with the Musical Arts
Association whereby Cleveland City
Council authorizes the expenditure
of
twenty
thousand
dollars
($20,000.00) to the Musical Arts
Association
to
help
underwrite
expenses associated with the 2001
Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration
to be held at Severance Hall on January 14, 2001.
Section 2. That Cleveland City
Council shall receive one-half (1/2)
of all tickets allotted to the City of
Cleveland for distribution to members of the community, including
the combination of dress circle and
box seats and further, including
tickets and/or invitations to any
and all receptions held prior to the
concert.
Section 2. That the cost shall be
paid from Fund 01 001 Org. 010101
Account 632000.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000, without the signature of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1978-2000.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to amend the Competitive Grant Agreement with Bellaire
Puritas Development Corporation,
City Contract No. 56455 to provide
for additional services and additional cost relative thereto, for the
Department of Community Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to amend the Competitive
Grant Agreement with Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation, City
Contract No. 56455, to provide for
additional services including, but
not limited to, personnel, benefits,
travel
and
equipment,
for
the
Department of Community Development.

2829

49
Section 2. That the amount of the
amendment authorized herein shall
not exceed $43,159.40 and shall be
paid for from Fund No. 14 sub class
026.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 30, 2000.
Effective November 7, 2000.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, November 13, 2000
Public
Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties Committee: 10:00 a.m.—
Present: Rybka, Chairman; Brady,
Britt, Johnson, Sweeney. Excused:
Dolan, Vice Chairman, White.
Legislation Committee (Joint with
Finance Committee): 1:30 p.m.—Present: Lewis, Chairman; Jones, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Coats, Gordon,
Johnson, Westbrook.
Finance Committee (Joint with
Legislation Committee): 1:30 p.m.—
Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Dolan,
Johnson,
Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Robinson,
Sweeney. Excused: Cintron, Polensek.
Finance Committee: 2:00 p.m.—
Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Dolan,
Johnson,
Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Robinson,
Sweeney. Excused: Cintron, Polensek.
Tuesday, November 14, 2000
Community & Economic Development Committee: 9:30 a.m.—Present:
Melena,
Chairman;
Lewis,
Vice
Chairman,
Cimperman,
Jackson,
Jones, Robinson, Willis. Excused:
Brady, Cintron.
Public
Health
Committee:
1:00
p.m.—Present:
Gordon,
Chairman;
Robinson, Vice Chairman; Brady,
Cimperman, Westbrook, Willis. Excused: Jackson.
Wednesday, November 15, 2000
City Planning Committee: 10:00
a.m.—Present:
Cimperman,
Chairman;
Dolan,
Jackson,
O’Malley,
White. Excused: Rybka, Vice Chairman; Robinson.
Public Utilities Committee: 1:00
p.m.—Present: O’Malley, Chairman;
Britt, Coats, Dolan, Melena, Willis.
Excused: Patmon, Vice Chairman;
Polensek, Westbrook.

The City Record

50

November 15, 2000

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Management and maintenance of rental car facility — Second Amendment to Agreement
(O.412-99) — Colliers Intl. — Port Control (O 1974-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2828
Musical Arts Association — agreement — 2001 Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration
(O 1977-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2829
Banners
Second Metropolitan Church 75th Anniversary (Ward 5) — Banners (O 2039-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2801
Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Armstrong, James – appeal adopted on 11/8/00 (Doc. L-20-00). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clarkwood Avenue, 2224-2280, (a.k.a. 2280-98 Clarkwood Avenue), (Ward 5) – Charles
C. Pearson/Guardian Robert M. Lustig, owner - appeal resolved on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-145-00) .
Denison Avenue, 9801, (Ward 18) – Edward E. Hulesch, owner - appeal resolved on 11/8/00
(Doc. A-183-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 114th Street, 3379, (Ward 3) – Conseco Finance Servicing Corporation, mortgagee appeal resolved on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-152-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 122nd Street, 2837, (a.k.a. 2837-39 East 122nd Street), (Ward 6) – Bankers
Trust Company of California N.A., mortgagee - appeal resolved on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-151-00) . .
East 123rd Street, 2903, (Ward 4) – The First National Bank of Chicago, mortgagee
- appeal postponed to 12/6/00 on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-148-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 3753, (Ward 2) – William Kozik, owner - appeal postponed to 11/22/00
on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-161-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th Street, 1801, (Ward 13) – Ohio Savings Management, owner - appeal resolved on
11/8/00 (Doc. A-184-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 1924, (Ward 13) – Arlene Stevar, owner - appeal resolved on 11/8/00
(Doc. A-174-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Avenue, 5901, (Ward 17) – Adelphia Foods, owner - appeal postponed to 11/22/00
on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-157-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 6501, (Ward 12) – Mentor Square Management, owner/Alan Silverman, tenant
- appeal resolved on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-175-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Industrial Parkway, 4529, (Ward 20) – Pioneer Manufacturing Company - appeal adopted on
11/8/00 (Doc. A-166-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road, 7535, (Ward 5) – Gene A. Sardon, Sr., owner - appeal resolved on 11/8/00
(Doc. A-150-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Court, 5439, (Ward 13) – Ronald Davis, owner - no action on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-124-00). . . . . . .
Lake Court, 5447, (Ward 13) – Ronald Davis, owner - no action on 11/08/00 (Doc. A-123-00). . . . . .
Lake Court, 5456, (Ward 13) – Ronald Davis, owner - no action on 11/08/00 (Doc. A-118-00). . . . . .
Literary Road, 613, (Ward 13) – Bridge Avenue Development, Ltd., owner - appeal adopted
on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-153-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rockwell Avenue, 1425, (Ward 13) – T-Rex Development, Inc., owner - appeal resolved on
11/8/00 (Doc. A-170-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stearns Road, 2064, (Ward 9) – Cleveland Municipal School District/Cleveland School of
the Arts, owner - appeal adopted on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-171-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Van Aken Boulevard, 2720, (Ward 4) – GMS Management Co., Inc. and Stuart J. Graines,
owners - appeal rescheduled to 11/22/00 on 10/25/00 (Doc. A-40-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th Street, 3875, (Ward 15) – National City Mortgage Company, mortgagee - appeal
adopted on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-149-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 1276, (Ward 13) – West Sixth Group, owner - appeal resolved on 11/8/00
(Doc. A-173-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2189, (Ward 13) – Bridge Avenue Development, Ltd., owner - appeal
adopted on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-155-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2193, (Ward 13) – Bridge Avenue Development, Ltd., owner - appeal
adopted on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-156-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2199, (Ward 13) – Bridge Avenue Development, Ltd., owner - appeal
adopted on 11/8/00 (Doc. A-154-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 94th Street, 3147, (Ward 18) – Richard J. Brincka, owner - appeal adopted on 11/8/00
(Doc. A-135-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Yoney, Alonza P. – appeal adopted on 11/8/00 (Doc. L-19-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2815
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2816
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2816
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2816
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2816
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2816
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2816
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2816
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

2816
2815
2815
2815

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2816
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2746
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2816
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817

Board of Control - City of Shaker Heights
Sell PPN 733-10-014 (located in City of Shaker Heights) - to Barry J. Minoff pursuant to
Ord. 1060-2000 (BOC Res. 766-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812

2830

November 15, 2000

The City Record

51

Board of Control - Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Special Site Study and Preliminary Engineering Reports for relocation of NASA facilities
- further amend Contract #53711 - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 756-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810
Board of Control - Cleveland Public Power Division
Customer Information system for CPP implemenation - amend Contract #53157 with SCT
Utility Systems, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 771-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Wesco
Distribution, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 750-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Reed City
Power Line Supply, Ohio Division - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 751-00). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to National
Power X / Utiliserve - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 752-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Cooper
Power Systems - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 753-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outdoor lighting program - amend BOC Res. 732-00 - Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 749-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outdoor lighting program (installation) - contract pursuant to Ord. 822-2000 to R
& R Construction - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 754-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outdoor lighting program (installation) - contract pursuant to Ord. 822-2000 to Westside
Lighting - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 755-00) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2813

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2809

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2809

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2809

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810

Board of Control - Finance Department
Computer related hardware equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 362-2000 to Erie Shores
Computer, Inc. - Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 769-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Computer related hardware equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 362-2000
to Dell Marketing L.P. - Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 770-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Computer related hardware equipment - pursuant to Ord. 362-2000 - bids rejected - Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 768-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paint, automotive - contract pursuant to Ord. 711-99 to Carquest Auto Parts - Dept. of
Finance (BOC Res. 748-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell PPN 132-02-017 - to Jennifer Hajj pursuant to Ord. 1007-2000 (BOC Res. 765-00) . . . . . . . . .
Sell PPN 733-10-014 (located in City of Shaker Heights) - to Barry J. Minoff pursuant to
Ord. 1060-2000 (BOC Res. 766-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell West Technical High School (PPN 005-29-001/045) - to West Tech LLC pursuant to Ord.
1976-99 (BOC Res. 767-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2813
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2813
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2813
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2809
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812

Board of Control - Land Sales
Sell PPN 132-02-017 - to Jennifer Hajj pursuant to Ord. 1007-2000 (BOC Res. 765-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
Sell PPN 733-10-014 (located in City of Shaker Heights) - to Barry J. Minoff pursuant to
Ord. 1060-2000 (BOC Res. 766-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
Sell West Technical High School (PPN 005-29-001/045) - to West Tech LLC pursuant to Ord.
1976-99 (BOC Res. 767-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
Board of Control - Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Cenweld dump bodies - contract pursuant to Ord. 1058-99 to Cenweld Corporation - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 757-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
International truck parts and labor - contract pursuant to Ord. 267-2000
to Wise International Trucks of Ohio - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept.
of Public Service (BOC Res. 759-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
Pump, fuel dispensing, repair of - contract pursuant to Ord. 266-2000 to Nozzle New, Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 758-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
Board of Control - NASA
Special Site Study and Preliminary Engineering Reports for relocation of NASA facilities
- further amend Contract #53711 - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 756-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810
Board of Control - Police Division
Furniture - contract pursuant to Ord. 838-2000 to Boise Cascade Office Products Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 763-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812

2831

The City Record

52

November 15, 2000

Furniture - contract pursuant to Ord. 838-2000 to CBF Industries - Division of Police,
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 762-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
Furniture - contract pursuant to Ord. 838-2000 to Todays Office, Inc. - Division of
Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 764-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
Insurance, aviation - contract pursuant to Ord. 1108-2000 to Aon Risk Services, Inc. of
Ohio - Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 760-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
Board of Control - Port Control Department
Special Site Study and Preliminary Engineering Reports for relocation of NASA facilities
- further amend Contract #53711 - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 756-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810
Board of Control - Professional Service Contracts
Customer Information system for CPP implemenation - amend Contract #53157 with SCT
Utility Systems, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 771-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2813
Special Site Study and Preliminary Engineering Reports for relocation of NASA facilities
- further amend Contract #53711 - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 756-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810
Board of Control - Public Safety Department
Furniture - contract pursuant to Ord. 838-2000 to Boise Cascade Office Products Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 763-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Furniture - contract pursuant to Ord. 838-2000 to CBF Industries - Division of Police,
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 762-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Furniture - contract pursuant to Ord. 838-2000 to Todays Office, Inc. - Division of
Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 764-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance, aviation - contract pursuant to Ord. 1108-2000 to Aon Risk Services, Inc. of
Ohio - Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 760-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Truck, hammer with flatbed bodies - pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 - all bids rejected
- Division of Traffic Engineering and Parking, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 761-00)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811

Board of Control - Public Service Department
Cenweld dump bodies - contract pursuant to Ord. 1058-99 to Cenweld Corporation - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 757-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
International truck parts and labor - contract pursuant to Ord. 267-2000
to Wise International Trucks of Ohio - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept.
of Public Service (BOC Res. 759-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
Pump, fuel dispensing, repair of - contract pursuant to Ord. 266-2000 to Nozzle New, Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 758-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
Board of Control - Public Utilities Department
Customer Information system for CPP implemenation - amend Contract #53157 with SCT
Utility Systems, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 771-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Wesco
Distribution, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 750-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Reed City
Power Line Supply, Ohio Division - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 751-00). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to National
Power X / Utiliserve - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 752-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Cooper
Power Systems - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 753-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outdoor lighting program - amend BOC Res. 732-00 - Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 749-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outdoor lighting program (installation) - contract pursuant to Ord. 822-2000 to R
& R Construction - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 754-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outdoor lighting program (installation) - contract pursuant to Ord. 822-2000 to Westside
Lighting - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 755-00) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2813

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2809

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2809

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2809

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810

Board of Control - Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell PPN 132-02-017 - to Jennifer Hajj pursuant to Ord. 1007-2000 (BOC Res. 765-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
Sell PPN 733-10-014 (located in City of Shaker Heights) - to Barry J. Minoff pursuant to
Ord. 1060-2000 (BOC Res. 766-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
Sell West Technical High School (PPN 005-29-001/045) - to West Tech LLC pursuant to Ord.
1976-99 (BOC Res. 767-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812

2832

November 15, 2000

The City Record

53

Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Cenweld dump bodies - contract pursuant to Ord. 1058-99 to Cenweld Corporation - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 757-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Computer related hardware equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 362-2000 to Erie Shores
Computer, Inc. - Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 769-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Computer related hardware equipment - contract pursuant to Ord. 362-2000
to Dell Marketing L.P. - Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 770-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Wesco
Distribution, Inc. - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 750-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Reed City
Power Line Supply, Ohio Division - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 751-00). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to National
Power X / Utiliserve - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 752-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution transformers, 13.8 kV - contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Cooper
Power Systems - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 753-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Furniture - contract pursuant to Ord. 838-2000 to Boise Cascade Office Products Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 763-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Furniture - contract pursuant to Ord. 838-2000 to CBF Industries - Division of Police,
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 762-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Furniture - contract pursuant to Ord. 838-2000 to Todays Office, Inc. - Division of
Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 764-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance, aviation - contract pursuant to Ord. 1108-2000 to Aon Risk Services, Inc. of
Ohio - Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 760-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International truck parts and labor - contract pursuant to Ord. 267-2000
to Wise International Trucks of Ohio - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept.
of Public Service (BOC Res. 759-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outdoor lighting program - amend BOC Res. 732-00 - Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 749-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outdoor lighting program (installation) - contract pursuant to Ord. 822-2000 to R
& R Construction - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 754-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outdoor lighting program (installation) - contract pursuant to Ord. 822-2000 to Westside
Lighting - Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 755-00) .
Paint, automotive - contract pursuant to Ord. 711-99 to Carquest Auto Parts - Dept. of
Finance (BOC Res. 748-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pump, fuel dispensing, repair of - contract pursuant to Ord. 266-2000 to Nozzle New, Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 758-00) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2813
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2813

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2809

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2809

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2812
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2809

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2810
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2809
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811

Board of Control - Traffic Engineering and Parking Division
Truck, hammer with flatbed bodies - pursuant to Ord. 904-2000 - all bids rejected
- Division of Traffic Engineering and Parking, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 761-00) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2811
Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Clarkwood Road, 2222-2298, (Ward 5) – Charles C. Pearson, owner and Robert M.
Lustig, guardian of Charles C. Pearson - appeal withdrawn on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-278) . . . . . .
East 100th between Euclid and Carnegie, , (Ward 6) – Appeal of John E. Tsambounieries appeal denied and adopted on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-292). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 89th and Euclid Avenue, , (Ward 6) – Appeal of John E. Tsambounieries - appeal
denied and adopted on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-291) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Henninger Road, 3304, (Ward 15) – B & L Development, owner and Rockport Construction and
Materials, Inc., tenant c/o Janet Leslie - appeal heard on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-275) . . . . . . . . . . .
Literary Road, 519, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited Partnership, owner
c/o Keith Sutton - appeal heard on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-289). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Literary Road, 613, (Ward 13) – Bridge Avenue Development Ltd., owner - appeal granted
and adopted on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-271). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Oval near Jeptha Drive, , (Ward 9) – John L. Demarhos, d.b.a. Johnny’s Hot Dogs appeal denied and adopted on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-319). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 143rd Street, 3757-3771, (Ward 21) – PPG Industries Inc., owners, and Borchert
Fencing Company, agent - appeal heard on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-305) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
west 143rd Street, 3779-3791, (Ward 21) – PPG Industries Inc., owners, and Borchert
Fencing Company, agent - appeal heard on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-307) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 143rd Street, 3800, (Ward 21) – PPG Industries Inc., owners, and Borchert Fencing
Company, agent - appeal heard on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-306) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 157th Street, 4033, (Ward 21) – John Kimble, owner, and Craig L. Madsen, agent
- appeal denied and adopted on 11/13/11 (Cal. 00-296) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2128, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge, Phase 1, Limited Partnership, owner c/o
Keith Sutton - appeal heard on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-283) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2142, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited Partnership, owner c/o
Keith Sutton - appeal heard on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-284) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2833

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2815
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2815
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2815
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2815
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2815
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814

The City Record

54

November 15, 2000

West 5th Street, 2158, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited Partnership, owner c/o
Keith Sutton - appeal heard on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-285) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2162, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited Partnership, owner c/o
Keith Sutton - appeal heard on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-286) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2189, (Ward 13) – Bridge Avenue Development Ltd., owner - appeal granted
and adopted on 11/6/00 (Cal. 00-268). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2192, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited Partnership, owner c/o
Keith Sutton - appeal heard on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-287) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2193, (Ward 13) – Bridge Avenue Development Ltd., owner - appeal granted
and adopted on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-269). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2199, (Ward 13) – Bridge Avenue Development Ltd., owner - appeal granted
and adopted on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-270). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2203, (Ward 13) – Tremont Ridge Phase 1, Limited Partnership, owner c/o
Keith Sutton - appeal heard on 11/13/00 (Cal. 00-288) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2815
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2815
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2815
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814

Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
Archwood Avenue, 4239, (Ward 15) – Osvaldo Luva - appeal to be heard on
11/27/00 (Cal. 00-303) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadale Road, 4682, (Ward 15) – Petros and Samrong Avgerinos, owners 11/27/00
(Cal. 00-311) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 152nd Street, 775, (Ward 11) – North Point Properties, Inc., owners, and Volunteers
of America of Northeast and North Central Ohio, Inc. - appeal to be heard on
11/27/00 (Cal. 00-337) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin Luther King Boulevard, 2862, (a.k.a. 2856 MLK Boulevard), (Ward 4) – Full Gospel
Church, owner, and Great Lakes Fence, agent - appeal to be heard on 11/13/00
(Cal. 00-308) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Seville Road, 16013, (Ward 1) – Jaylin Development Corporations, owners, c/o Charles
Chudakoff - appeal to be heard on 11/27/00 (Cal. 00-309) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2814

Bridges
W. 53rd St. Bridge; Denison Ave. Bridge, Harvard Ave. Bridge, W. 65th St. Bridge and the
W. 74th St. Bridge — payment — rehabilitating and reconstructing — amend Sec. 1
of Ord. No. 1301-97 (O 2024-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2795
City Audit Commission
City Audit Commission — new Chapter 154 (O 1957-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
City of Cleveland Bids
AutoCAD software, installation, support and training - Department of Public Service
- Division of Engineering and Construction - per Ord. 1833-96 - bid due December 6,
2000(advertised 11/15/2000 and 11/22/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2818
Automotive and truck parts - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance - per Ord. 1264-99 - bid due December 6, 2000(advertised 11/15/2000 and 11/22/2000) . . 2818
Biological and chemical testing supplies (Secondary Turbidity Standards) - Department of
Public Utilities - Division of Water - per C.O. Sec. 129.28 - bid due December 1,
2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2818
Cab/chassis with 30’ aerial tower platform/utility line construction body - Department
of Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance - per Ord. 904-2000 - bid
due December 1, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2818
Chevrolet medium duty truck parts - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance - per Ord. 270-2000 - bid due December 6, 2000(advertised 11/15/2000 and 11/22/2000) . 2818
Dump bodies - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance - per
Ord. 1058-99 - bid due December 1, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2818
Electrical Vaults 5 & 7 Project (RFQ Package M246) - Department of Port Control Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - due December 7, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000
and 11/15/2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2818
Electronic risk analysis management system - Department of Public Safety - Division of
Police - per Ord. 1656-99 - bid due November 29, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
Elevators, service and maintenance of - Department of Public Safety - per Ord. 834-2000
- bid due November 29, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
Emission exhaust systems at Fire stations - Department of Public Safety - per Ord.
927-2000 - bid due November 22, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
Gerber Edge computer system with upgrades - Department of Public Safety - Division
of Traffic Engineering and Parking - per Ord. 1005-2000 - bid due November 29,
2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2817
Halloran Park skating facility flooring - Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties
- Division of Recreation - per Ord. 1748-99 - bid due November 29, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) 2817
Nottingham Water Works blower building project - Department of Public Utilities Division of Water - per Ord. 818-2000 - bid due December
13, 2000(advertised 11/15/2000 and 11/22/2000 and 11/29/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2819
Nottingham Water Works filter rehabilitation project - Department of Public Utilities Division of Water - per Ord. 818-2000 - bid due December
13, 2000(advertised 11/15/2000 and 11/22/2000 and 11/29/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2818

2834

November 15, 2000

The City Record

55

Office supplies - Department of Finance - bid due November 22, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000). . . . .
Pneumococcal vaccine - Department of Public Health - Division of Health - per Ord.
646-2000 - bid due November 29, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Sound Insulation Program consultant (interior sound) (RFQ ) - Department of
Port Control - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - due November
27, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Sound Insulation Program consultant (National Historic Preservation Act
Section 106 compliance) (RFP ) - Department of Port Control - Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport - due December 11, 2000(advertised 11/15/2000 and 11/22/2000) . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Sound Insulation Program consultant (treatment recommendations) (RFQ
) - Department of Port Control - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
- due November 21, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Snyder Avenue area sewer replacement - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water
Pollution Control - per Ord. 2157-99 - bid due November 30, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . . . . .
Truck, hammer with flatbed body - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance - per Ord. 904-2000 - bid due December 1, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . .
X-ray fluorescent lead analyzers - Department of Community Development - per Ord.
1210-2000 - bid due November 22, 2000(advertised 11/8/2000 and 11/15/2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2817
2817

2818

2819

2818
2817
2818
2817

City Council
Musical Arts Association — agreement — 2001 Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration
(O 1977-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2829
Clark Metro Development Corporation
FL Thompson Building — capital improvement — Clark Metro Development Corporation
— amend Ord. No. 661-2000 — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2038-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2801
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
NASA Facilities for Runway 5L/23R— demolishing, relocating and constructing — permits
— Port Control (O 2015-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2790
SprintCom, Inc. — two easements — Lease By Way of Concession — installing, removing,
replacing, modifying, maintaining and operating a personal communications service
system facility — Port Control (O 1056-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
Cleveland Industrial Park
Block H of the Cleveland Industrial Park — sell City-owned property — JRM Chemical Inc.
(O 2031-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2799
Cleveland Public Power
CPP Business Strategy Deregulation Plan — Public Utilities (F 1992-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
Defective poles — remove and replace — Cleveland Public Power (O 1387-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Three hundred sixty winter jacket liners — purchase — Cleveland Public Power
(O 1676-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2806-2809
Codified Ordinances
City Audit Commission — new Chapter 154 (O 1957-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City boards and commissions — compensation for members — amend Sections 173.15, 173.16,
173.17, 173.18, 173.19, 173.20 (O 2040-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Small Business Program — amend Section 123.08 — repeal Sections 187.01
to 187.15 — new Sections 187.01 to 187.22 (O 2014-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Emergency Medical Service — amend Sections 135.33 and 135.331 (O 2026-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Food shops — licensing and sanitation — amend Chapter 241 — repeal Sections 243.01 —
new Sections 245.01 to 245.12 (O 2025-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scavenging of solid waste — enact Section 551.082 — amend Section 551.99
(O 1199-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service providers at the airport — new Section 571.021 (O 744-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 2807
. . . . . . . . . . . 2821
. . . . . . . . . . . 2784
. . . . . . . . . . . 2797
. . . . . . . . . . . 2795
. . . . . . . . . . . 2822
. . . . . . . . . . . 2821

Communications
Agreement No. 56654 — Fairfax Renaissance Dev. Corp. — Cityworks Neighborhood
Grant Prog. (F 1986-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract No. 56812 with Gartner Group, Inc. — Law Department (F 1988-2000) . . . . . .
CPP Business Strategy Deregulation Plan — Public Utilities (F 1992-2000) . . . . . . . . .
Denials of Certification — Third Quarter, 2000 — Office of Equal Opportunity
(F 1991-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Emergency Requisition (RE-24602) — Division of Purchases and Supplies
(F 1990-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Emergency Requisition (RE-30872) — Division of Purchases and Supplies
(F 1987-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2835

Matching
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783

The City Record

56

November 15, 2000

Gift Received from Greater Cleveland Growth Association — Public Safety
(F 1989-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
Third Quarter, 2000 Certified MBEs and FBESs— Office of Equal Opportunity
(F 1985-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
Community Development
Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation — amend Competitive Grant Agreement (City
Contract No. 56455)— Community Development (O 1978-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2829
Community Cultural Festivals — Cleveland State University Black Studies Program — Wards
3, 6, 9, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2036-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
East 120th Street, 395- and 3983 — Land Reutilization Program — Union Miles Development
Corporation (O 1599-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
East 73rd Street — property — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing Network,
Incorporated (O 1009-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
East 93rd Street, 3335 — Land Reutilization Program — Mazhar A. Khan
(O 941-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
FL Thompson Building — capital improvement — Clark Metro Development Corporation
— amend Ord. No. 661-2000 — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2038-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2801
Hough Area Partners In Progress (HAPP) — support operations of — amend Ord. No.
1771-2000 — Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1976-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2829
Lester Avenue, 4618, 4700 — Land Reutilization Program — Slavic Village Development
Corporation (O 1761-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784T
Lester Avenue, 4618, 4700 — Land Reutilization Program — Slavic Village Development
Corporation (O 1761-A-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Residential Crime Watch Program — Cudell Improvement, Inc. — amend Ord. No. 1247-2000
— Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity Fund (O 2042-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2802
Scattered sites (Wards 3, 4, 6) — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland New Homes L.P.
(O 1808-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2823
Sim’s Raiders Football Team and Booster Club — Wards 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 2035-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Subsistence Payment — housing rental subsidy — CDBG — Agreement — George Fischel (Ward
13) (O 2032-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2799
West 25th Street, 1936 — purchase a site for redevelopment — Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies (O 1208-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
Community Development Block Grant Program
Subsistence Payment — housing rental subsidy — CDBG — Agreement — George Fischel (Ward
13) (O 2032-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2799
Concession Agreements
Snack bar and vending machine — Visually Impaired — Concession Agreements — Carl B.
Stokes Building — Cleveland Public Power Building (O 2027-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2798
Condolences
Cooper, Katie M. (R 2003-2000) . . . . . . . . . .
Perkins, Dan R. (R 2002-2000). . . . . . . . . . .
Strancar, John (R 2001-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walker-Elston, Dora Renee (R 2005-2000)
Webber, Robert R. (R 2004-2000) . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

2784
2784
2784
2784
2784

Bailey, Nellie Lee (R 2010-2000) . . . . . . . . . .
Gethsemane Baptist Church (R 2009-2000) .
Matteson, James B. (R 2007-2000). . . . . . . . .
Rybka, Edward F. (R 2011-2000) . . . . . . . . .
Schwartz, Thomas C. (R 2008-2000) . . . . . . .
Slovenian National Home (R 2006-2000) . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

2784
2784
2784
2784
2784
2784

Congratulations

Contracts
Data network — employ professional consultant for design and installation — materials,
maintenance, and software — contract — Port Control (O 468-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
Maurice Avenue, 5900 — economic development assistance — renovations of real property
— Maurice Bellford Corporation (O 1213-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Cudell Improvement
Residential Crime Watch Program — Cudell Improvement, Inc. — amend Ord. No. 1247-2000
— Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity Fund (O 2042-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2802

2836

November 15, 2000

The City Record

57

Easements
West Hangar Road — easement — East Ohio Gas — Port Control (O 2016-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2791
East Ohio Gas Company
West Hangar Road — easement — East Ohio Gas — Port Control (O 2016-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2791
Economic Development Department
Block H of the Cleveland Industrial Park — sell City-owned property — JRM Chemical Inc.
(O 2031-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2799
Broadway Avenue and Aetna Avenue — rehabilitating — amend Section 5 of Ordinance No.
241-98 (O 2030-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2799
Carnegie Avenue, 8220 — Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity contract — Swift Davis
Cleaning and Laundry, Inc. — Economic Development (O 1809-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2806-2809
East 91st Street, 3800 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Garland Company — amend the title,
the third whereas clause, Section 1 and Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1571-99
(O 1642-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Maurice Avenue, 5900 — economic development assistance — renovations of real property
— Maurice Bellford Corporation (O 1213-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Miles Park Avenue, 9250 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Miles Park Carnegie Library, Ltd.
— ten year abatement — Economic Development (O 1415-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Miles Park Avenue, 9250 — partially finance the renovation — Miles Park Carnegie
Library, Ltd. — Economic Development (O 1414-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Sycamore, 2000 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — The Revere Group — Economic Development
(O 2028-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2798
Tax Increment Financing Agreement — Third Federal Savings and Loan Association — amend
Section 5 of Ordinance No. 159-98 (O 2029-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2798
West 67th Place Reconstruction Project — grants — Economic Development and Public
Service (O 1686-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Empowerment Zone
Carnegie Avenue, 8220 — Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity contract — Swift Davis
Cleaning and Laundry, Inc. — Economic Development (O 1809-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2806-2809
Enterprise Zone Agreement
East 91st Street, 3800 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Garland Company — amend the title,
the third whereas clause, Section 1 and Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1571-99
(O 1642-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Miles Park Avenue, 9250 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Miles Park Carnegie Library, Ltd.
— ten year abatement — Economic Development (O 1415-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Finance Department
City boards and commissions — compensation for members — amend Sections 173.15, 173.16,
173.17, 173.18, 173.19, 173.20 (O 2040-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2821
Cleveland Small Business Program — amend Section 123.08 — repeal Sections 187.01
to 187.15 — new Sections 187.01 to 187.22 (O 2014-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Commercial gases — purchase — various divisions of City government (O 1862-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2806-2809
Computer hardware — purchase — various divisions of City government
(O 1863-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2806-2809
PeopleSoft modules — software maintenance and support services — contract — Division
of Finance Reporting and Control (O 1795-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Typewriters — purchase of labor and material to maintain — various divisions of City
government (O 1864-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807-2809
Window washing services — various divisions of City government (O 1578-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2822
Funds
Install fencing at various locations — adjacent to railroad property — funds obtained
from Norfolk Southern and CSX — Public Service (O 1399-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Noise barriers and installing landscaping on railroad property — funds obtained from
Norfolk Southern and CSX — Public Service (O 1398-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Grants
West 67th Place Reconstruction Project — grants — Economic Development and Public
Service (O 1686-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Health Department
Food shops — licensing and sanitation — amend Chapter 241 — repeal Sections 243.01 —
new Sections 245.01 to 245.12 (O 2025-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2795

2837

The City Record

58

November 15, 2000

Hough Area Partners in Progress
Hough Area Partners In Progress (HAPP) — support operations of — amend Ord. No.
1771-2000 — Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1976-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2829
Land Reutilization Program
East 120th Street, 395- and 3983 — Land Reutilization Program — Union Miles Development
Corporation (O 1599-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
East 73rd Street — property — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing Network,
Incorporated (O 1009-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
East 93rd Street, 3335 — Land Reutilization Program — Mazhar A. Khan
(O 941-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
Lester Avenue, 4618, 4700 — Land Reutilization Program — Slavic Village Development
Corporation (O 1761-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784T
Lester Avenue, 4618, 4700 — Land Reutilization Program — Slavic Village Development
Corporation (O.1761-A-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Scattered sites (Wards 3, 4, 6) — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland New Homes L.P.
(O 1808-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2823
Law Department
Contract No. 56812 with Gartner Group, Inc. — Law Department (F 1988-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
Lease by Way of Concession
SprintCom, Inc. — two easements — Lease By Way of Concession — installing, removing,
replacing, modifying, maintaining and operating a personal communications service
system facility — Port Control (O 1056-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
Liquor Permits
Cedar Avenue, 7905 (Ward 6) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1258-2000
(R 2045-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Avenue, 5110 — Transfer of Ownership Application — (Ward 17) (F 1993-2000) . . . . .
Denison Avenue, 9501 (Ward 18) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1480-99
(R 2056-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st Street, 3695-97, 1st Fl. & Bsmt. (Ward 3) — withdraw objection — repeal Res.
No. 1360-2000 (R 2053-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 65th Street, 1st Fl. & Bsmt. (Ward 12) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No.
1703-2000 (R 1983-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 7102 (Ward 7) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 663-99
(R 2048-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakewood Hgts. Blvd., 13429, 1st Fl. & Bsmt., excl. 2nd fl . (Ward 19)—objection
to Transfer of ownership (R 2043-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 11730, 1st fl. /front (Ward 19) — objection — Transfer of ownership
(R 2044-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 11026 (Ward 19) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1324-2000
(R 1979-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 14910 (Ward 21) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1533-2000
(R 1981-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Auburn Road, 9621, 1st Fl. & Bsmt. (Ward 6) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No.
785-2000 (R 2047-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Ave., 4409 (Ward 13) — issuance — objection (R 2046-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 14302 — Stock Transfer Application — (Ward 20) (F 1999-2000) . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 14302 (Ward 20) — objection stock Transfer (R 2054-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 14930 (Ward 20) — objection of C1 permit (R 1984-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shaker Boulevard, 13130 — Transfer of Ownership and Location Application — (Ward
4) (F 1997-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shaker Boulevard, 13130 (Ward 4) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1537-2000
(R 1982-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 16921, 1st Fl. (Ward 11) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No.
1273-2000 (R 2052-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 18506 — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1452-2000
(R 2051-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 6611 — Transfer of Ownership and Location Application — (Ward
13) (F 1998-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 7114, (Ward 13) — withdraw objection — Repeal Res. No. 75-2000
(R 1980-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 7017-19, 1st & 2nd Fls. — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1321-99
(R 2049-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 9108, 1st Fl & Bsmt. (Ward 7) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No.
1346-2000 (R 2050-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Park Avenue, 7038 — Transfer of Ownership Application — (Ward 7)
(F 1996-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th Street (F 1995-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2838

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2803
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2806
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2805
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2820
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2804
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2803
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2803
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2819
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2820
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

2804
2804
2784
2805
2820

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2820
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2805
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2805
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2820
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2804
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2805
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2783

November 15, 2000

The City Record

59

West 130th Street, 4611 — Transfer of Ownership Application — (Ward 20)
(F 1994-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
West 130th Street, 4611 (Ward 20) — objection Transfer of ownership (R 2055-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2806
Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division (MVM)
Cushman Ransomes equipment parts — purchase (O 2022-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diesel fuel — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 2023-2000) . . . . . . . . .
Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment parts — purchase — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (O 2021-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Generators — repair and maintain — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2019-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heavy duty construction equipment — repair and maintain — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 2020-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2793

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Community Cultural Festivals — Cleveland State University Black Studies Program — Wards
3, 6, 9, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2036-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FL Thompson Building — capital improvement — Clark Metro Development Corporation
— amend Ord. No. 661-2000 — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2038-2000) . . . . . . . .
Hough Area Partners In Progress (HAPP) — support operations of — amend Ord. No.
1771-2000 — Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1976-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Crime Watch Program — Cudell Improvement, Inc. — amend Ord. No. 1247-2000
— Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity Fund (O 2042-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sim’s Raiders Football Team and Booster Club — Wards 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 2035-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 2800
. . . . . . . . . 2801
. . . . . . . . . 2829
. . . . . . . . . 2802
. . . . . . . . . 2800

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
(#19-99b) Light Fixture Replacement — Thurgood Marshall Recreation Center — Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (F 2000-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Snack bar and vending machine — Visually Impaired — Concession Agreements — Carl B.
Stokes Building — Cleveland Public Power Building (O 2027-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2798
Permits
Christmas Trees with lights (24) — permit — Councilman Jay Westbrook (Ward
18) (O 2041-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Christmas Wreaths (48) —Tremont West Development Corporation (Wards 13 and 14)
(O 2037-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hermes Race Systems — Turkey Trot — November 23, 2000 (O 1973-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Decorations (32) — Northeast Shores Development Corporation (Ward 11)
(O 2040-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Wreath Decorations — permits — Kamm’s Corner Development Corporation (Ward 21)
— amend Ord. No. 1819-2000 (O 1975-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Honda dealership at I-90 and East 200th Street — fencing, lighting and a (new car)
parking area — permit — Rick Case Enterprises (O 1201-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Second Metropolitan Church 75th Anniversary (Ward 5) — Banners (O 2039-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . 2802
. . . . . . . . 2801
. . . . . . . . 2828
. . . . . . . . 2802
. . . . . . . . 2828
. . . . . . . . 2807
. . . . . . . . 2801

Port Control Department
Data network — employ professional consultant for design and installation — materials,
maintenance, and software — contract — Port Control (O 468-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FAA TRACON — construction — Port Control (O 2017-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Janitorial, snow removal and HVAC services — employ one or more professional consultants
— Port Control (O 909-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Management and maintenance of rental car facility — Second Amendment to Agreement
(O.412-99) — Colliers Intl. — Port Control (O 1974-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
NASA Facilities for Runway 5L/23R— demolishing, relocating and constructing — permits
— Port Control (O 2015-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service providers at the airport — new Section 571.021 (O 744-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Six work stations — install — Department of Port Control (O 1637-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SprintCom, Inc. — two easements — Lease By Way of Concession — installing, removing,
replacing, modifying, maintaining and operating a personal communications service
system facility — Port Control (O 1056-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Hangar Road — easement — East Ohio Gas — Port Control (O 2016-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 2807
. . . . . . . . . . 2792
. . . . . . . . . . 2807
. . . . . . . . . . 2828
. . . . . . . . . . 2790
. . . . . . . . . . 2821
. . . . . . . . . . 2808

. . . . . . . . . . 2807
. . . . . . . . . . 2791

Purchases and Supplies Division
West 25th Street, 1936 — purchase a site for redevelopment — Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies (O 1208-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
Races
Hermes Race Systems — Turkey Trot — November 23, 2000 (O 1973-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2828

2839

The City Record

60

November 15, 2000

Real Estate
Block H of the Cleveland Industrial Park — sell City-owned property — JRM Chemical Inc.
(O 2031-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2799
Recognition
Brother Circle of Cleveland (R 2012-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Kitwana, Bakari (R 2013-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Aviation High School — reopen — Urging the Cleveland Municipal School District,
its Chief Executive Officer and Mayor White (R 1730-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2819
Restricted Income Tax Fund
On-road vehicles and off-road equipment — vehicle rehabilitation for the various
divisions of City government (O 1685-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2822
Right-of-Way
Honda dealership at I-90 and East 200th Street — fencing, lighting and a (new car)
parking area — permit — Rick Case Enterprises (O 1201-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
Safety Department
Emergency Medical Service — amend Sections 135.33 and 135.331 (O 2026-2000) . . . . . . . .
Food shops — licensing and sanitation — amend Chapter 241 — repeal Sections 243.01
new Sections 245.01 to 245.12 (O 2025-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gift Received from Greater Cleveland Growth Association — Public Safety
(F 1989-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
On-road vehicles and off-road equipment — vehicle rehabilitation for the various
divisions of City government (O 1685-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2797
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2795
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2822

Salaries
City boards and commissions — compensation for members — amend Sections 173.15, 173.16,
173.17, 173.18, 173.19, 173.20 (O 2040-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2821
Service Department
Cushman Ransomes equipment parts — purchase (O 2022-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Christmas Trees with lights (24) — permit — Councilman Jay Westbrook (Ward
18) (O 2041-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Christmas Wreaths (48) —Tremont West Development Corporation (Wards 13 and 14)
(O 2037-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diesel fuel — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 2023-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment parts — purchase — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (O 2021-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Generators — repair and maintain — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2019-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heavy duty construction equipment — repair and maintain — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 2020-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Decorations (32) — Northeast Shores Development Corporation (Ward 11)
(O 2040-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Wreath Decorations — permits — Kamm’s Corner Development Corporation (Ward 21)
— amend Ord. No. 1819-2000 (O 1975-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Honda dealership at I-90 and East 200th Street — fencing, lighting and a (new car)
parking area — permit — Rick Case Enterprises (O 1201-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Install fencing at various locations — adjacent to railroad property — funds obtained
from Norfolk Southern and CSX — Public Service (O 1399-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Avenue from Ridge Road to Pearl Road — rehabilitation — amend Section 12
of Ordinance No. 2368-92 (O 1402-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Noise barriers and installing landscaping on railroad property — funds obtained from
Norfolk Southern and CSX — Public Service (O 1398-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
On-road vehicles and off-road equipment — vehicle rehabilitation for the various
divisions of City government (O 1685-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payment of the City of Cleveland’s share rehabilitation of West 140th Street — amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2159-99 (O 1682-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reclaimed or virgin asphalt concrete — purchase — Division of Streets
(O 1679-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rock salt — purchase — Division of Streets (O 1680-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive — repair and resurfacing — payment of Cleveland’s share — amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1004-91 (O 2018-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2840

. . . . . . . . 2794
. . . . . . . . 2802
. . . . . . . . 2801
. . . . . . . . 2794
. . . . . . . . 2794
. . . . . . . . 2793
. . . . . . . . 2793
. . . . . . . . 2802
. . . . . . . . 2828
. . . . . . . . 2807
. . . . . . . . 2808
. . . . . . . . 2808
. . . . . . . . 2808
. . . . . . . . 2822
. . . . . . . . 2808
. . . . . . . . 2808
. . . . . . . . 2808
. . . . . . . . 2793

November 15, 2000

The City Record

61

Scavenging of solid waste — enact Section 551.082 — amend Section 551.99
(O 1199-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Second Metropolitan Church 75th Anniversary (Ward 5) — Banners (O 2039-2000). . . . . . . . . .
W. 53rd St. Bridge; Denison Ave. Bridge, Harvard Ave. Bridge, W. 65th St. Bridge and the
W. 74th St. Bridge — payment — rehabilitating and reconstructing — amend Sec. 1
of Ord. No. 1301-97 (O 2024-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 67th Place Reconstruction Project — grants — Economic Development and Public
Service (O 1686-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Winfield Avenue S.E. — vacate a portion (O 1202-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2822
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2801

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2795
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2807

Statement of Work Acceptance
(#19-99b) Light Fixture Replacement — Thurgood Marshall Recreation Center — Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (F 2000-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Street Vacation
Cormere Avenue S.E. — intention to vacate - Ward 4 (R 1417-2000) . . . . . . . . .
Hamilton Court N.E. — intention to vacate (R 2033-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Williams Avenue and East 128th Street — intention to vacate (R 2034-2000).
Winfield Avenue S.E. — vacate a portion (O 1202-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

2808
2800
2800
2807

Streets Division
Reclaimed or virgin asphalt concrete — purchase — Division of Streets
(O 1679-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Rock salt — purchase — Division of Streets (O 1680-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Tremont West Development Corporation
Tremont West Development Corporation — Christmas Wreaths (O 2037). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2801
Utilities Department
Defective poles — remove and replace — Cleveland Public Power (O 1387-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Three hundred sixty winter jacket liners — purchase — Cleveland Public Power
(O 1676-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2806-2809
Vehicles
On-road vehicles and off-road equipment — vehicle rehabilitation for the various
divisions of City government (O 1685-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2822
Ward 01
Bailey, Nellie Lee (R 2010-2000) . . . . . . . . . .
Block H of the Cleveland Industrial Park
(O 2031-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cooper, Katie M. (R 2003-2000) . . . . . . . . . . .
Kitwana, Bakari (R 2013-2000) . . . . . . . . . . .
Perkins, Dan R. (R 2002-2000). . . . . . . . . . . .

...
—
...
...
...
...

....
sell
....
....
....
....

...........
City-owned
...........
...........
...........
...........

.........
property
.........
.........
.........
.........

........
— JRM
........
........
........
........

.........
Chemical
.........
.........
.........
.........

.....
Inc.
.....
.....
.....
.....

. . . . . . . . . . 2784
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 2799
. 2784
. 2784
. 2784

Ward 02
East 120th Street, 395- and 3983 — Land Reutilization Program — Union Miles Development
Corporation (O 1599-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 91st Street, 3800 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Garland Company — amend the title,
the third whereas clause, Section 1 and Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1571-99
(O 1642-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Park Avenue, 9250 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Miles Park Carnegie Library, Ltd.
— ten year abatement — Economic Development (O 1415-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Park Avenue, 9250 — partially finance the renovation — Miles Park Carnegie
Library, Ltd. — Economic Development (O 1414-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 2808

. . . . . . . . . 2808
. . . . . . . . . 2808
. . . . . . . . . 2808

Ward 03
Community Cultural Festivals — Cleveland State University Black Studies Program — Wards
3, 6, 9, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2036-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
East 131st Street, 3695-97, 1st Fl. & Bsmt. (Ward 3) — withdraw objection — repeal Res.
No. 1360-2000 (R 2053-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2805
Scattered sites (Wards 3, 4, 6) — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland New Homes L.P.
(O 1808-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2823

2841

The City Record

62

November 15, 2000

Ward 04
Cormere Avenue S.E. — intention to vacate - Ward 4 (R 1417-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scattered sites (Wards 3, 4, 6) — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland New Homes L.P.
(O 1808-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shaker Boulevard, 13130 (Ward 4) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1537-2000
(R 1982-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shaker Boulevard, 13130 — Transfer of Ownership and Location Application — (Ward
4) (F 1997-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Williams Avenue and East 128th Street — intention to vacate (R 2034-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 2808
. . . . . . . . . . 2823
. . . . . . . . . . 2820
. . . . . . . . . . 2784
. . . . . . . . . . 2800

Ward 05
East 73rd Street — property — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing
Incorporated (O 1009-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 3335 — Land Reutilization Program — Mazhar A. Khan
(O 941-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Second Metropolitan Church 75th Anniversary (Ward 5) — Banners (O 2039-2000). .

Network,
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2807
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2801

Ward 06
Brother Circle of Cleveland (R 2012-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Carnegie Avenue, 8220 — Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity contract — Swift Davis
Cleaning and Laundry, Inc. — Economic Development (O 1809-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2806-2809
Cedar Avenue, 7905 (Ward 6) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1258-2000
(R 2045-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2803
Community Cultural Festivals — Cleveland State University Black Studies Program — Wards
3, 6, 9, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2036-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Mt. Auburn Road, 9621, 1st Fl. & Bsmt. (Ward 6) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No.
785-2000 (R 2047-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2804
Scattered sites (Wards 3, 4, 6) — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland New Homes L.P.
(O 1808-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2823
Sim’s Raiders Football Team and Booster Club — Wards 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 2035-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Williams Avenue and East 128th Street — intention to vacate (R 2034-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Ward 07
Gethsemane Baptist Church (R 2009-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Area Partners In Progress (HAPP) — support operations of — amend Ord. No.
1771-2000 — Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1976-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 7102 (Ward 7) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 663-99
(R 2048-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 7017-19, 1st & 2nd Fls. — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1321-99
(R 2049-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 9108, 1st Fl & Bsmt. (Ward 7) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No.
1346-2000 (R 2050-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Park Avenue, 7038 — Transfer of Ownership Application — (Ward 7)
(F 1996-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2829
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2804
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2804
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784

Ward 08
Sim’s Raiders Football Team and Booster Club — Wards 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 2035-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Ward 09
Community Cultural Festivals — Cleveland State University Black Studies Program — Wards
3, 6, 9, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2036-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Sim’s Raiders Football Team and Booster Club — Wards 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 2035-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Ward 10
Community Cultural Festivals — Cleveland State University Black Studies Program — Wards
3, 6, 9, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2036-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Perkins, Dan R. (R 2002-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Sim’s Raiders Football Team and Booster Club — Wards 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 2035-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Ward 11
Holiday Decorations (32) — Northeast Shores Development Corporation
(O 2040-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sim’s Raiders Football Team and Booster Club — Wards 6, 8, 9, 10, 11
Funds (O 2035-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2842

(Ward 11)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2802
Neighborhood Equity
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800

November 15, 2000

The City Record

St. Clair Avenue, 16921, 1st Fl. (Ward 11) — withdraw objection — repeal
1273-2000 (R 2052-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 18506 — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1452-2000
(R 2051-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Strancar, John (R 2001-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

63
Res. No.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784

Ward 12
East 65th Street, 1st Fl. & Bsmt. (Ward 12) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No.
1703-2000 (R 1983-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2820
Maurice Avenue, 5900 — economic development assistance — renovations of real property
— Maurice Bellford Corporation (O 1213-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Rybka, Edward F. (R 2011-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Ward 13
Christmas Wreaths (48) —Tremont West Development Corporation (Wards 13 and 14)
(O 2037-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2801
Community Cultural Festivals — Cleveland State University Black Studies Program — Wards
3, 6, 9, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2036-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Hamilton Court N.E. — intention to vacate (R 2033-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Hermes Race Systems — Turkey Trot — November 23, 2000 (O 1973-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2828
Lester Avenue, 4618, 4700 — Land Reutilization Program — Slavic Village Development
Corporation (O 1761-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784T
Lester Avenue, 4618, 4700 — Land Reutilization Program — Slavic Village Development
Corporation (O.1761-A-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Matteson, James B. (R 2007-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Payne Ave., 4409 (Ward 13) — issuance — objection (R 2046-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2804
Slovenian National Home (R 2006-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
St. Clair Avenue, 6611 — Transfer of Ownership and Location Application — (Ward
13) (F 1998-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
St. Clair Avenue, 7114, (Ward 13) — withdraw objection — Repeal Res. No. 75-2000
(R 1980-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2820
Tremont West Development Corporation — Christmas Wreaths (O 2037-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2801
Ward 14
Christmas Wreaths (48) —Tremont West Development Corporation (Wards 13 and 14)
(O 2037-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FL Thompson Building — capital improvement — Clark Metro Development Corporation
— amend Ord. No. 661-2000 — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2038-2000) . . . . . . . . .
Sycamore, 2000 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — The Revere Group — Economic Development
(O 2028-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont West Development Corporation — Christmas Wreaths (O 2037-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1936 — purchase a site for redevelopment — Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies (O 1208-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . 2801
. . . . . . . . 2801
. . . . . . . . 2798
. . . . . . . . 2801
. . . . . . . . 2807

Ward 15
Community Cultural Festivals — Cleveland State University Black Studies Program — Wards
3, 6, 9, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2036-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
Memphis Avenue from Ridge Road to Pearl Road — rehabilitation — amend Section 12
of Ordinance No. 2368-92 (O 1402-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Ward 16
Memphis Avenue from Ridge Road to Pearl Road — rehabilitation — amend Section 12
of Ordinance No. 2368-92 (O 1402-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2808
Ward 17
Clark Avenue, 5110 — Transfer of Ownership Application — (Ward 17) (F 1993-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783
Webber, Robert R. (R 2004-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784
Ward 18
Christmas Trees with lights (24) — permit — Councilman
18) (O 2041-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue, 9501 (Ward 18) — withdraw objection —
(R 2056-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Crime Watch Program — Cudell Improvement,
— Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity Fund (O 2042-2000). .
Walker-Elston, Dora Renee (R 2005-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2843

Jay Westbrook (Ward
................................
repeal Res. No. 1480-99
................................
Inc. — amend Ord. No. 1247-2000
................................
................................

. . . . . . . . . . . 2802
. . . . . . . . . . . 2806
. . . . . . . . . . . 2802
. . . . . . . . . . . 2784

The City Record

64

November 15, 2000

Ward 19
Community Cultural Festivals — Cleveland State University Black Studies Program
3, 6, 9, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2036-2000) . . . . . . . . .
Lakewood Hgts. Blvd., 13429, 1st Fl. & Bsmt., excl. 2nd fl . (Ward 19)—objection
to Transfer of ownership (R 2043-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 11730, 1st fl. /front (Ward 19) — objection — Transfer of ownership
(R 2044-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 11026 (Ward 19) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1324-2000
(R 1979-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th Street (F 1995-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

— Wards
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2803
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2803
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2819
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2783

Ward 20
Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation — amend Competitive Grant Agreement (City
Contract No. 56455)— Community Development (O 1978-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Cultural Festivals — Cleveland State University Black Studies Program — Wards
3, 6, 9, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2036-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 14302 (Ward 20) — objection stock Transfer (R 2054-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 14302 — Stock Transfer Application — (Ward 20) (F 1999-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 14930 (Ward 20) — objection of C1 permit (R 1984-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4611 (Ward 20) — objection Transfer of ownership (R 2055-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4611 — Transfer of Ownership Application — (Ward 20)
(F 1994-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2829
2800
2805
2784
2820
2806
2783

Ward 21
Holiday Wreath Decorations — permits — Kamm’s Corner Development Corporation (Ward 21)
— amend Ord. No. 1819-2000 (O 1975-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2828
Lorain Avenue, 14910 (Ward 21) — withdraw objection — repeal Res. No. 1533-2000
(R 1981-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2820
Schwartz, Thomas C. (R 2008-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2784

2844

